Obsidion is the best Minecraft Discord Bot
You can obtain a dragon egg by pushing it with a piston
If you wear a pumpkin enderman won't attack you if you look at them
It's easier to catch fish in the rain
Pistons can't push obsidian
Kill pigs, cows, and chickens with flint and steel; they will drop the cooked meat
An egg has a 1/256 chance to hatch four chickens at once
It is impossible to hit an enderman with an arrow/egg/snowball
If a skeleton or zombie stands on soul sand during the day they won't catch fire
Endermite suffocate in soul sand
You can't open a chest if there is a cat sitting on it
Most of the endermans sounds are people saying “Hi”, “Hello”, and “What's up” reversed, slowed down and distorted
Tamed wolves will attack you if you shoot yourself with an arrow
Shears don't take durability damage when destroying wool
Using a tool for a different use than it is intended to will decrease it's durability by two points instead of one (so stop breaking trees with picks!)
The pumpkin must be placed last to create an iron golem (also the wither skull has to be placed last for the wither to spawn)
You can't see a nether portal behind water or ice
An arrow shooted at primed TNT will right come back at you
There is a 1 in a 10,000 chance that the title will say Minecraft, not Minecraft
The enderdragon can destroy chests but no storage minecarts (minecarts with chest)
A splash potion of harming will heal a skeleton and a splash potion of healing will harm a skeleton (*the undead***)
Notch almost called Minecraft 'Cave Game’ ( that wouldn't be fun)
Blocks in the nether is equal to one block in the overworld
Endermen will become passive again if touching water
Iron golems and wolves are the only two mobs which can become hostile in peaceful mode
If your z or x coordinates are divisible by 16 then you are on a chunk boundary
It is possible to grow a tree past the height limit
Both types of spiders can't climb up ice
Despite their lack of arms, creepers can climb ladders
The chances of a sheep spawning with pink wool is 0.5%
Nether warts can be placed in the overworld but can only grow in the nether
The best layer to mine for diamonds is level twelve
When holding fthree, the nether is called Hell, and the End is called Sky (there was going to be a sky dimension but i came out as the end)
Villagers have a chance to spawn around a nether portal
The wither is immune to all projectiles
In Minecraft onepointeight slimes finally get swimming lessons (so be careful)
If you leave the seed input blank, it uses your computer clock time
The letters you see in the enchantment table is the standard alactic alphabet and Minecraft was not the first game to use it
All cows in Minecraft are female, since they can all give out milk (yet they can still breed)
A fully charged bow does more damage than a diamond sword
Creepers are based on a failed model of a pig
The ability to throw eggs was added when a player said he would eat his USB if Notch added it? (He did)
It takes 4 Minutes 10 Seconds to break obsidian with your fist
Jukeboxes can be used to fuel a furnace (but that cost you a diamond)
A sword will not take damage while killing the Ender Dragon
There is a green robe for villagers (it's called custom villager)
No hostile mobs spawn in mushroom biomes or underground in caves under mushroom biomes
Mobs won't spawn on slabs
Cats don't take fall damage
If you go into gamemode 3 and right click inside a creeper the world will turn greenish (this is how a creeper sees)
It will take about 10 minutes to smelt a stack of 64
A bow at max power can destroy a boat and a minecart​
​Drinking milk will stop all poison effects​
​Movement on soul sand is even slower when ice is underneath​
​Arrows shot through lava will cause fire damage​
​You can eat spider eyes
​You can obtain a dragon egg by pushing it with a piston​
​​TNT explosions remove lava​
​Right clicking a mooshroom with a bowl gives you mushroom stew​
​Torches and rails placed under falling sand/gravel will break it​
​It's easier to catch fish in the rain​
​You can drag any mob with a fishing rod​
​Pressure plates block water and lava​
​You can see player name tags through chest and signs, even if the player is sneaking​
​Enderman always drop ender pearls if it is killed by an Iron Golem​
​You can fish underwater​
​Nether fences and regular fences do not connect​
​Pistons can't push obsidian or bedrock blocks​
​Eggs have a 1/256 chance of spawning 4 chickens​
​You can't open a chest if a cat is sitting on it​
​Creepers and skeletons can't see a player through glass when not aggravated​
​If you eat a raw chicken while crouching, you have a smaller chance of getting poisoned​
​A creeper's fuse countdown will last a little longer if it encounters a cobweb​
​Boats won't break if they crash into soul sand​
​When saplings grow they remove any glass pane that is in the way​
​Spiders are friendly during daytime or fully lit room​
​If you light a pig or cow, it drops a cooked pork chop or steak​
​Magma cubes don't take fall damage​
​A skeleton will shoot itself if you are over or under it​
​It takes 10 minutes and 40 seconds to smelt a stack of anything​
​Suffocating, drowning, starving, falling, the void, poison, any harming potion, or post fire damage will not hurt your armor​
​Zombie Pigmen are not affected by lava or fire​
​If a player throws an egg at a docile spider, it will stay neutral​
​You can sleep during a thunderstorm, even during daytime​
​Wolves won't attack creepers​
​It's impossible to hit an enderman with an arrow/egg/snowball​
​Magma cubes, blazes, enderman eyes and spider eyes glow in the dark​
​An an enraged spider who is damaged from falling or cactus will be neutral again​
​Slabs don't cut your redstone circuit​
​If a tree grows in the nether, it will have dead-looking brown leaves​
​Skeletons and zombies on soul sand won't burn in the day​
​You can activate a wooden pressure plate with an arrow
​It is possible to deal a critical hit on a fireball since it is an entity​
​You can ride through blocks above rails on a minecart​
​Unlike tiny slimes, tiny magma cubes can hurt the player​
​If a giant slime is in a minecart, you can't see the minecart and can only be pushed by another minecart with something in it​
​Ghast sounds were made by C418's Cat​
​You can still open chests if then is a non-solid block (Stairs, slabs, glass pane, fences, etc) or another chest above it​
​Redstone is the only light source that will not melt snow or ice besides natural light​
​You move faster underwater if the water is encased in something​
​Sneaking effects you reach distance​
Most enderman sounds are people saying "Hi" or "What's up", that are slowed down and reversed​
​Tamed wolves will attack you if you shoot yourself with an arrow​
​If you use an invisibility potion on a spider or enderman you can still see their eyes​
​Shears don't take durability damage when destroying wool​
Water destroys cobweb​
​Using a tool for a different use than is intended will decrease durability by 2 points instead of one​
Charged creeper's explosions are 50% more powerful than TNT and twice as more as a normal creeper's​
​Ice is invisible behind water and vice versa​
​If you throw an xp at a slab, you tend to get more xp​
​Rain and snow can't be seen through glass that us being broken​
​Enderman have a higher chance to spawn at nights with a new moon​
​Pumpkins are more difficult to find than diamond​
​An arrow shot at primed TNT will come back at you​
​If you place soul sand in front of a 1x2 doorway, you can only walk through on way​
​A dropped item on a rail will stop a minecart​
​There is a 1/10000 chance that in the main menu, the title will me "Mineceraft" and not "Minecraft"​
​You can't put a door on ice​
​When glass is being smashed, the sky behind will turn blue even if there are clouds​
​The Ender dragon can destroy chests but not minecarts with chests​
​A splash potion of harming will heal a skeleton​
​A splash potion of healing will harm a skeleton​
​Mobs can't spawn on slabs​
​Ghasts can't blow up cobblestone​
​Notch almost called Minecraft "Cave Game"​
​Pistons and sticky pistons can move any kind of rail​
​Lava blocks in the nether can flow 7 blocks, when it only goes 4 in the overworld​
​Enderman will become passive again if it touches water​
​Iron Golems and wolves are the only mobs that can become hostile in peaceful mode​
​If your Z and X coordinates are divisible by 16 then you are on a chunk boundary​
​When the game is paused, a hostile enderman will still shake​
​Villagers will breed if there is a wooden door in their village​
​If there is a way to get out of a room, a snow golem will try to get out​
​It is possible to grow a tree past the height limit​
​Both types of spiders can't climb up ice​
​Lava pools are more common in taiga and snowy biomes​
​Cats don't take fall damage​
​Despite their lack of arms, creepers can climb ladders​
​The chance of a sheep spawning with pink wool is 0.5%​
​If you plant crops in rows with a space in between each row, the crops grow faster​
​Eating has no effect on vertical movement (Jumping, ladder travel, falling)​
​Slabs and cake on ice will still give you the sliding effect​
​Creepers are afraid of ocelots​
​Bone Meal placed on normal grass will spawn tall grass and flowers​
​Cakes will disappear if you break the block beneath them​
​The best layer to mine for diamonds is level 12​
Creepers are based off a fail pig model made by Notch​
​Weather happens around every 7 minecraft days, which is 2 hours real time​
When looking at the debug screen (F3), the nether is called Hell, and the End is called Sky​
There is a 1% chance a zombie will drop a carrot on easy mode​
Spiders were the first arthropod mobs to be added to the game
0.1.0 is the only New 3DS version to be prefixed with the number 0.
The /datapack enable and /datapack disable commands can also be used to reload data packs.
As of November 15, 2013, 29 tracks have been added to Minecraft.
Many sounds that C418 has used can be found at freesound.org.
C418's Minecraft skin is the default skin, but the head is replaced with the texture for a jukebox.
Like Mojang employees, C418's in-game character can also be seen wearing a Mojang cape.
C418 revealed in an AMA on Reddit that the ghast sounds are taken from his pet cat when he is disturbed while sleeping.He was also going to have his cat voice ocelots, but since his cat never meows clearly, C418 decided to use cat sounds from Freesound instead.
In Pre-Classic breaking a block will not drop anything, because the ability to drop an item was not yet added.
When loading a pre-Classic version using the launcher, instead of it being called "Minecraft" it is simply titled "Game".
The name "Order of the Stone" was later reused in Minecraft: Story Mode as a legendary group of adventurers.
The naming system in this phase was "id-ddhhmm", where "id" stands for the game's initials ("rd" for RubyDung, an earlier project of Notch's, and "mc" for Minecraft in later, public versions of pre-Classic), dd was the day of the month, hh was the hour released, and mm was the minute released, so rd-132211 was released on May 13 at 22:11 (10:11 pm). One exception to this system is rd-20090515, which just uses the full date in year-month-day format.
It is possible to play various Alpha versions within the current launcher by enabling the "Historical versions" button.
Classic was originally known as "Minecraft Alpha", before being retroactively named "Classic" after development on Infdev completed.
The player originally spawns in the world at 0,0,0 and then immediately gets teleported up; creating a world while the game is out of focus shows this.
Before the Halloween Update, Alpha had several "biomes", such as:Woods, , Plains, Treeless Mountain, Woods Mountain, Beach, Ocean, Cactus Beach, Original (Land with a medium amount of trees), Original Mountain, Overhang, Cliff
On September 18, 2010, the Minecraft authentication server broke. Notch turned this into a free weekend where everyone could download and play the game. This got Minecraft lots of free press coverage and made lots of new players buy the game afterwards.
The price for Minecraft Alpha was €9.95 (£8.95/$11.54).
All versions of the game before Alpha are still regarded as old-alpha by the launcher, regardless of their development stage.
23% of all of the Alpha versions that were made are lost.
In the Nether, the spawn point is always on top of an opaque block. This is hard to observe because the player always transports back to the Overworld when they're killed in the Nether.
If an opaque block is given transparent pixels in an edited texture, then instead of showing the block behind it through the transparent part, it simply fills in the area with white.
The time span between the first snapshot and 1.10-pre1 was only 15 days, which is abnormal when compared to previous releases.
The most recent update to be equal or faster than 1.10-pre1 was Beta 1.0 to Beta 1.1, with only 2 days passing.
Nautiluses are animals that occupy deep oceans in the real world. However, they are absent in Minecraft and there are currently no plans to add nautilus mobs into the game.
Infdev was given its name as a play on words from Indev (which stood for IN DEVelopment); the "Inf" stands for Infinite.
Infdev is silent since the Infdev resources have been removed from minecraft.net/resources (unless the user uses a proxy for the resources), but this does not happen to Indev.
Breaking a block when directly on top of it would not show the breaking animation in Infdev.
In early versions of Infdev, the player would start with 990 wood planks and 999 glass blocks.
In the terrain.png of Infdev (the file with all of the textures) remnants of the cog texture could be seen.
In the terrain.png of Infdev, a strange and out of place texture could be seen below the sapling, which appeared to be a jumble of red, orange, and white pixels. However, it was later replaced with a solid red square, with the words "fire tex" written on it.
In the versions misc. folder, the textures for the cog could be seen under the names of: gear.png and gearmiddle.png.
There is a rumor that in the files, an unused level type called the "Skylands" could be found in the files, which might've been a new file type for Indev (possibly the Floating world type).
From February 27 to April 15, 2010 Infdev versions, mobs did not spawn due to a glitch in the code, however the April 15 version fixed it.
Although only one version of infdev is available through the launcher, all except one of the infdev versions of the game are playable in their unmodified states through third party websites.
Fossil are one of the five generated structures that do not have a loot chest (the others being swamp huts, desert wells, nether fossil and ocean monuments).
Illager's structures always built by many dark oak logs and planks.
The ominous banner ‌[JE only] / illager banner ‌[BE & EE only] is uncraftable. Player can only get it by killing a raid captain, from pillager outposts or command.
15w39b was previously removed from the launcher for some time, but was added back in September 2018.
1.2.2 is the first minor client version in the full release of Java Edition.
3w47c has no bug fixes.
If the dragon's breath is used in a crafting recipe (using a mod or a data pack), it becomes an empty bottle instead of being entirely consumed.
The stonecutter was originally added to Pocket Edition due to a lack of space in the MATTIS crafting screen, prior to the redesign in v0.9.0 alpha.
The stonecutter has never been usable in New Nintendo 3DS Edition, as its first version was based on Pocket Edition Alpha 0.15.4, two major releases after the stonecutter's functionality had been removed.
Is not known if version 1.4.3 existed
This is the final version of the unsubtitled game as the next version succeeding it, 1.12.2-pre1, is subtitled Java Edition.
Grass blocks are the first plants to be in the game as seen in Cave game tech test.
Some plants can generate in underground dirt patches.
This snapshot, being the second for 1.14, was released in the same week of the year as the second snapshot of the previous major update, 17w43b.
Desert wells are one of the five generated structures that do not have a loot chest (the others being swamp huts, fossils, nether fossil and ocean monuments). They also are the only single structure that is designed to hold water (not to be confused with a waterlogged structure).
The smallest possible fully-grown chorus tree (assuming the growth is not obstructed) would have 5 chorus plants.
16w05a was previously removed from the launcher for some time, but was added back in September 2018.
17w31a was previously removed from the launcher for some time, but was added back in September 2018.
This snapshot was labeled as 11w49a rather than 11w50a.
Beta 1.1_01 update was released a few minutes after Beta 1.1.
15w35e is the only time a fifth snapshot was released in a single week in 1.9, and only the third time this has happened in the development of Minecraft, after 12w30e and 13w47e.
13w47e is the only fifth in a week snapshot in 1.7.4, and the only ever except 12w30e and 15w35e.
12w30e is the only fifth in a week snapshot in 1.3.1, and the only ever except 13w47e and 15w35e
13w42a and the April Fools' version 3D Shareware v1.34 both have the same protocol version as 13w42b.
20w13b has the same protocol version as April Fools' snapshot 20w14∞
Between 1.6.61 and 1.6.66, a prototype for 2.x Launcher known as Launcher 2.0.15x-dev was made, which was released day after 1.6.66 release.
The development of what was to become Minecraft first started, using the source code of RubyDung (an unfinished game that Notch was making prior to Minecraft) as a base.
20w08a is tied with Java Edition 13w12~ for the record for the least amount of changes in a snapshot, with only one bug fixed.
20w07a and 20w14a are currently the only 1.16 snapshots to not have introduced a new block.
Netherite items are the only items in the game that cannot burn in lava, besides a nether star dropped by a wither that has not yet been picked up.
Netherite are also the only items that float in lava.
Netherite hoe is the only Netherite-related item that is renewable.
Netherite items can't be destroyed in lava, but the Cactus block can destroy Netherite items.
The handle of Netherite tools resemble the color of Crimson Variant.
Out of all Java Edition versions published after 19w36a (September 4th, 2019), Combat Test 3 is yet the only one published without any obfuscation ma
Unlike previous Combat Tests, the version it forked against, 1.14.4, has obfuscation maps released.
All consequent Combat Tests have obfuscation maps released, and are based off versions with obfuscation maps released.
As of 20w13b, versions released in year 2020 still have # (c) 2019 Microsoft Corporation. in the license notice in the obfuscation map files.
A glitch occurring during Early Classic Creative that allowed players to raise the height of a fluid block by placing sand over it. The sand would stay suspended in mid-air until it was broken. When broken, a fluid block corresponding to the type below the sand would appear where the block was. The suspended fluid block would remain immobile until a block was placed next to it, causing a flood.
Unlike most of the first-of-the-week snapshots, 18w11a was released on a Tuesday instead of Wednesday.
Projectile Protection is also coded to reduce damage from snowballs and eggs, although they deal 0 damage in vanilla Minecraft.
The name of the game was changed from "Minecraft: Order of the Stone" to "Minecraft".
he "rd" prefix in the pre-Classic rd-160052's name stands for RubyDung, a previous game Notch worked on and abandoned, and was used as some of Minecraft's inspiration.
Unlike most of the first-of-the-week snapshots, 18w48a was released on a Thursday instead of Wednesday, similar to the snapshots before 14w26a.
13w41b has the same protocol version as 13w41a.
1.11.2 is the last minor version to not have any development versions.
The "poster" was located at minecraft.net/boo, which no longer exists. An archive of it is available at archive.org
The poster said that pumpkins were "useless", while now, they provide a shield against provoking endermen.
The poster said "Portal in, move 10 meters, portal out, and you're hundreds of meters away." Since portals move the player by a factor of 8, 10 meters away in the Nether is 80 meters away in the Overworld, not hundreds. Also, moving less than 16 meters before building a new portal will most likely take the player back to the original portal in the Overworld (provided it has not been destroyed beforehand), so 0 meters away.
Infdev 20100629 was the first downloadable version of the game.
11w50a is mislabeled as 11w49a.
After the sounds were updated, they applied to all Minecraft versions, including all beta and alpha versions.
A version of Wurm Online, which Notch developed from 2003, is called "0.0.19a".
Interestingly, the release date for 1.9-pre1 was (though not confirmed by Mojang themselves) hinted at in the 16w06a blog post in the hotbar, where the wool values corresponded to the numbers 1, 7, 0, 2, 2, 0, 1, 6, which represented the date February 17th, 2016 - the day this was released.
pre-Classic mc-161648 was the last unnumbered version of early Minecraft, as a version number was added from the next update.
18w20c was released 9 years after Classic 0.0.11a, the first publicly released version of Minecraft.
1.8.9 the last release to be compatible with a previous server version.
Despite 1.8.9 having less features and being unsupported (like Java Edition 1.7.10), it is still popular among minigame players and plugin servers, due to a common dislike of 1.9 features such as the Combat Update's changes to PvP.
This is the oldest version of Classic in the launcher, listed as old_alpha rd-132211. It is also the earliest found version of Minecraft.
1.12.2-pre1 has the same protocol version as 1.12.2-pre2.
Prior to the 2018 Skin Update, Beta 1.2_02 was the oldest version in the launcher to have working skins.
If the player changed their skin after Java Edition 1.8, the last skin the player used prior to Java Edition 1.8 would be displayed. This occurred in all versions after Beta 1.2_02 until Java Edition 1.3.1, and it is currently unknown why this happened and why Java Edition 1.3.1 was the oldest version to display post-Java Edition 1.8 skins.
This version breaks the numbering convention of Beta 1.0, seeing as other patches are numbered with _0n, with n being the patch number. However, Beta 1.0.2 was never called Beta 1.0_02, therefore breaking the numbering convention.
Infdev 20100627 was the last applet version of the game.
There was once a developer build of Classic 0.0.18a_02 which had added glass and sponge for testing. These two blocks weren't officially added until 0.0.19a.
Herobrine was first shown in an edited screenshot from Alpha v1.0.16_02
Beta 1.7_01 was the last version worked on solely by Notch.
Indev 0.31 20100113 was one of the few versions from 0.30 to Beta 1.7.3 to get a Creative release, the only other versions being the first two versions of Indev (December 23, 2009, releases).
Beta 1.7.3 was also the last version to include a dirt background in the screen.
Beta 1.7.3 was also the last version to feature the old beta terrain generator with the crazy terrain.
Beta 1.7.3 was also the last version where the player could visit the farlands.
Beta 1.7.3 was also the last version where the world got more jittery the farther out the player went from 0,0.
Beta 1.7.3 was also the last version to include a dirt background in the screen
13w42b and the April Fools' version 3D Shareware v1.34 both have the same protocol version as 13w42a.
13w41a has the same protocol version as 13w41b.
1.7.6-pre1 is the first pre-release which uses the new naming convention, version-pren. Previous versions incremented the minor version number instead of the pre-release counter.
1.15.1 was the last version to be released in 2019 and the 2010s decade.
If aimed correctly, an arrow can fly past the gap between a block and a grass path placed below using commands.
The second texture for rabbit hide was created by reddit user zeldahuman. The comment containing this texture has since been deleted.
The plains biome also generates in patches within dark forest and regular deep ocean biomes, similar to how 'Hills' biomes generate within their respective base biomes.
Plains use regular forest and wooded hills as their hills biome variants.
Classic was originally named "Minecraft Alpha", but was renamed retroactively upon the release of Alpha.
The version numbers used during Early Classic Creative and Multiplayer Test are in the same format as Wurm Online, a game Notch developed from 2003 (0.0.#a).
Player skins that are used for the full game are synced with Classic mode. Thus, custom skins can be used in both singleplayer and multiplayer versions of Classic mode for premium users.
In the Classic jar files, sprites for several mobs can be found. Playing a Survival Test map in normal Classic will preserve mobs, and also lets the player have multiple blocks of the same type (or none at all) on the hotbar.
Classic mode uses very old liquid physics, making it possible to flood the whole map with water or lava from just one block of the liquid.
When mobs were added and first survival test was created, it was possible to copy some files into the game client or browser client and play it in classic multiplayer, allowing player to do same things as in survival test, but with other people and on custom maps. However, the mobs appeared in other locations for each client, as the mobs were not server-based.
In Classic mode, the game world is not infinite. It is a cube made out of naturally generated blocks and surrounded by infinite water and bedrock.
When Beta 1.8 came out, sounds no longer worked and saving levels to the online server for premium users became impossible because Mojang removed its resources directory and addresses it was referring to for saving, possibly as a step towards phasing it out. Worlds that were not backed up locally were lost.
It is possible to obtain lava, water, and grass blocks by using Cheat Engine.
72.5% of all of the Classic versions that were made are lost
There was a sound test in 0.0.14a_08 featuring new mining sounds, splashing sounds and a few other ne
The terrain.png file for 0.30 has 4 random brick textures in the middle of the unused section, and it also contains an uncentered side gold block texture in the lower left hand corner.
In Classic the ocean surrounding the map would end at a certain point (not visible in normal play). This end depends on the render distance.
Water buckets can be used to break end portal blocks by placing the water on the side of a block corresponding to a side of an end portal block.
Surprisingly, blocks of coal cannot be used as fuel for the minecart with furnace.
A full stack of coal blocks should smelt for 14.2 hours – over 42 Minecraft days. That is over fifty times as many items as a lava bucket. However, the player needs 576 coal or 9 stacks of coal to do this.
In Java Edition 3D Shareware v1.34 (the 2019 April Fools update), higher levels of Multishot (obtainable through the burning barrels in that version or commands) shoots more arrows. This is the only version to do this; on other versions, crossbows shoot 3 arrows regardless of the level of Multishot.
While real-life honeycombs are based on a hexagonal tiling, the honeycomb block appears to be more akin to a square tiling, likely to fit in with the square/cubic theme of the game.
Grumm, ingame, has been hidden in most of the "cover pictures" of snapshots starting with Java Edition 13w19a.
Starting in Minecraft 1.6, any mob named "Grumm" or "Dinnerbone" or the players themselves will be rendered upside-down.
When Notch announced Hardcore mode on Twitter, he jokingly posted an image of an 'ultra hardcore' mode where the premium status of the player's account is revoked on death, which may reference the custom gamemode of Ultra Hardcore.
When a Hardcore mode world is loaded on a version released prior to Hardcore mode, the world is converted into a Survival world. Loading this world in a version featuring Hardcore mode does not revert the world back to Hardcore mode.
Ph1lza, a Minecraft Hardcore streamer, is the longest known Hardcore survivor, having played in his world for five years before dying to a spider after entering a cave full of mobs.
Pig Tales was a mini site within Minecraft.net that allowed you to create and share your own conversations that starred two Minecraft Pig sock puppets known as Pig #1 and Pig #2 in front of an obviously fake set. The conversation ended with a dramatic zoom-in on Pig #1. The films were made in retro style and were "produced" by a fake Swedish company called Mackapar Films.
he man "acting" (holding the socks) in Pig Tales is Jeb.
On April 1, 2018, all textures in 1.12.2 were temporarily replaced – they were changed to include a smaller range of colors, falsely told to be the new textures previously announced (as a joke for April Fools).
1.12.2 is one of the versions with a disproportionately large amount of mods available, along with 1.7.10.
Many features implemented in 0.0.14a are commonly erroneously cited as being implemented in the version "0.0.14a_01".
Pocket Edition Alpha 0.16.2 was the last update in the Alpha stage of Pocket Edition development.
Pocket Edition Alpha 0.16.2 was the last update for Windows Phone 8 devices. Updates for Windows Mobile resumed on February 22, 2017, with the release of 1.0.3 for Windows 10 Mobile.
1.15.1 Pre-Release 1 was the last pre-release in 2019 and the 2010s decade.
During the snapshots for Java Edition 1.9 there used to be a written book in the End ships. It read "we will have something here soon", possibly referring to the Elytra, and was signed by Searge.
Alpha v1.0.17 has the highest minor version number across all editions, at "17". The highest in Bedrock Edition is "16", with 1.2.16, and the highest in the full release of Java Edition is "10", with 1.7.10.
April Fools' version 3D Shareware v1.34 has the same data version as 19w13b.
Classic 0.0.2a was deemed "relatively stable" by Notch, and the URL for the game was posted to other users in the IRC channel.
When RC2 was initially uploaded, the changing of the version number to RC2 was forgotten, causing it to be displayed as RC1. This was fixed.
1.14.2 Pre-Release 2 was released 10 years and 41 minutes after Classic 0.0.11a, the first publicly released version of Minecraft.
18w21a was released on World Turtle Day.
1.2 is the first version to be released on a leap day.
1.14.3 - Combat Test is a fork of 1.14.3 Pre-Release 4.
The blog post for 16w33a was the first posted by LadyAgnes.
The 2 new splashes in 16w33a reference the game Pokémon GO.
1.7.10 is the first non-snapshot Java Edition version to have more than 3 digits on the version number since Beta 1.7_01 in June 2011.
With 1.7.10, 1.7 became the first Java Edition version to roll from single-digit to double-digit revision numbers since Alpha v1.0.10 four years prior.
Despite being extremely outdated, 1.7.10 has a disproportionately large amount of mods available. However, the majority of such mods have either been updated to Java Edition 1.12.2 or unofficial ports have been created of said mods by others for said version.
Alpha v1.1.2_01 was the oldest Minecraft version where players could hear sounds and see their skins from 2010/2011.
As of March 8, 2018, the player cannot see player's skins in Minecraft versions up to Java Edition 1.6.4, which is caused by Mojang removing old game resources.
Alpha v1.1.2_01 was the last version to feature the old terrain generator along with the bright green grass, which was an iconic staple of Alpha.
n addition, Alpha v1.1.2_01 was the last version in which the Far Lands would simply not render beyond 32,000,000 blocks out from the center of the map.
Notch planned to refactor the version naming system after this version, removing the second zero and the "a". As an example, since this was the most recent version at the time, "0.0.23a_01" would be called "0.23_01" with such a system. However, this version was never actually given this name outside of this example.
In Bedrock Edition, if the player manages to break all of the end portal blocks in the exit portal, the entire structure regenerates after 5 seconds.
In Notch's post announcing the release of Infdev 20100611 on The Word of Notch, he included an image of a level preview tool to show how the terrain looks in this version. What many suspected to be a monolith can be seen to the right of the image, near the coast. In this version, one quirk about the terrain was that the height amplification value was a little higher, allowing for some mountains to be so tall that they are cut off by the world height limit, thus giving the appearance of monoliths from above, accompanied by the ability of some mountain sides being able to look chunky and squared off resembling monoliths (shown on the bottom portion of the supposed monolith on the image). Upon further examination of the image, it shows that there is very high mountainous terrain that blends into the side of the supposed monolith that can barely be seen on both sides, which would be impossible for there to be if this was a real monolith, and there's even an overhang on the bottom, which also helps to disprove this structure being a monolith.
Pocket Edition 1.1.7 was the last update to the game subtitled Pocket Edition.
Alpha v1.2.1 is the newest version that is lost as of March 7, 2020. Every version after this is either in the launcher or archived elsewhere.
The image used for the  blog post for 16w40a shows 2 Minecraft characters in shulker boxes. These are Mojang AB game developers Erik "Grum" Broes and Maria Lemón.
The wool in the hotbar in the 16w06a cover image when converted into numbers based on the damage value reads "17022016", which appears to be February 17, 2016 — the date that Java Edition 1.9-pre1 was later released.
The URL for Minecraft was given to dock and fartron for testing.
he player can achieve 1024(♥ × 512) health points using a combination of Absorption and Health Boost, which is the highest health obtainable.
The Sky Dimension can be recreated with the Buffet world type by selecting The End as the Dimension and selecting the Biome as any Forest.
Before the Minecraft Marketplace was introduced, real money was used to buy the in-game Texture Packs and Skins. When Mojang did it this way, all of the content had to pass certification on every single platform. The Marketplace and Minecraft Coins were introduced to avoid this.
Any packs that were bought before the Marketplace was introduced read "Owned (P)" instead of "Owned".
On PlayStation 4, Tokens are used instead of Minecoins and do not transfer to or from other platforms. They are a light, matte blue and have a large T in the middle instead of an M.
46% of all of the Indev versions that were made are lost.
Indev's texture files contained the texture for the cobweb block, though webs were not fully implemented until Beta.
There were textures for a chair block that were removed in Infdev. Any such block still does not exist, suggesting the idea was scrapped or has just been put off for a very long time.
If the player tries to play Indev today, without modifications or a proxy, they may be kicked back to the main menu or the game might crash.
Indev had no gaps in the bedrock layer, neither did Classic, though Infdev and Alpha (before 1.2.0) had them.
In Indev and Infdev, while in the inventory, the player's arm, while in first-person view, would slowly sway back and forth. It is possible to move around while this happens. When the player does, the arm will flop around randomly as if the player were in 3rd-person. If the player closes the inventory, then the arm will pause in the position it was in while it was flopping around. The player can reopen the inventory and it will reset the arm. If the player uses a crafting table, chest, or furnace, then the player will not be able to move, but the arm will still slowly sway back and forth.
In Indev if the player walked out of the map, they would be pushed back into the level. The further out, they went the faster they would be pushed back. This does not happen in Indev 0.31.
If played today, Indev has sound, but Infdev does not. This is because Infdev resources were removed from minecraft.net/resources.
Indev contained a color palette image titled "cube_nes.png", which matches the color pallete used for the Nintendo Entertainment System.
If the player plays Indev today, their character will have a completely black skin. This is because Mojang removed support for skins via Indev. They can still become Steve by disconnecting from the internet.
Mobs in Indev had the same hurt sound as the player.
In an early version of Indev, the character in the inventory screen was Rana, used as a placeholder.
In Indev there is a rare glitch that when the player punches a sheep, it will drop magenta cloth instead of the normal gray cloth.
Unlike the first pre-release, 1.15.2 Pre-release 2 has a lowercase "r" in-game.
Lakes can technically still generate in the waters of rivers and frozen rivers, when either are used as buffet worlds. This can be more clearly seen in frozen river worlds, as holes in the ice.
Regular rivers can still generate cutting through frozen rivers.
Both types of rivers override ravines at or close to the surface level, causing the ravine to be abruptly cut off by a wall of stone. However, if the ravine is long enough, it may continue on the other side of the river.
Oddly, ravines can generate underground in river biomes without being cut off.
Gold tools are actually ranked as superior to diamond tools on the Legacy Console Edition's crafting screen.
Wooden tools can be burned in a furnace regardless of its durability; this means the player can burn a wooden tool that has only 1 use left.
In Bedrock Edition the Stripe Lands may be considered an x-ray bug, in that they follow the same rules for what blocks are visible. This is why the sides of blocks do not always render.
Before the heart of the sea was added to Bedrock Edition, there was an entry found in the buried treasure chest loot table named nautilus_core, which was later revealed to be the heart of the sea. Despite the name change, the heart of the sea continues to be referred to as the nautilus_core in most game files.
A build of v0.13.2 alpha was accidentally uploaded to the Google Play Store on January 29, 2016. This build was known to cause numerous crashes.
There is a developer version of 0.7.0, which is version 0.6.2.
1.14.2 was originally set to release in the week of May 20–26, 2019, but was pushed back to address further issues.
Sometimes it is believed that a rabbit's foot is a lucky charm. However a rabbit's foot in the game does not increase luck.
It is possible, but rare, for ore to be found encased in bedrock.
Strongholds can cause a bedrock not to form within its bounds.
From its addition in Classic through some versions of Alpha, bedrock's texture file was called Rock.png.
In Java Edition, the patterns of bedrock are consistent in all worlds regardless of world seed (except Superflat). In Bedrock Edition, the patterns are dependent on the seed in the Overworld, however, they are still consistent in the Nether.
The bedrock texture, regardless of the current default resource pack (Programmer Art or Default), is basically the stone block with really high contrast.
Vexes and the ender dragon can fly through bedrock. Additionally, the ender dragon cannot break bedrock.
The ruby was going to be the villager currency but was changed to emeralds before the update's release.
All of the sensor related items that are craftable (comparator, daylight sensor, observer) are crafted with some nether quartz involved.
It is impossible to attach a lead to a bat.
According to Jeb, the bat is an example of an ambient mob – a mob that constantly spawns, similar to the squid, but also constantly despawns because when a player isn't around it doesn't serve any purpose.
1.15.2 is the first release of 2020 and of the 2020s decade.
The desert pyramid's basement measures 21 blocks by 21 blocks.
The orange symbols on the outside resemble the Ancient Egyptian symbol for life, an Ankh.
Desert pyramids have a rare chance of generating improperly causing some blocks to be lost or added.
As there is no light in the lower chamber, mobs can spawn inside and trigger the TNT trap, destroying the chests and loot before any player can reach it. Also, rarely a lava lake might generate next to TNT, potentially setting the trap off as well.
A desert pyramid does not generate fully if generated partially on water. When generated on lakes, they are only half-generated.
The top hole in the pyramid's ceiling is almost always generated above ground, so buried temples are accessible, but fall damage is likely.
When a desert pyramid generates above a ravine, it has a deeper foundation like the village houses prior to the Village & Pillage update.
Alpha 1.0.0 is referred to as inf-20100630-2, instead of a1.0.0.
As with sticks and blaze rods, bones are wielded as a tool instead of an item.
Nether Fossils are one of the five generated structures that never generate with loot chests (the others being swamp huts, overworld fossils, desert wells, and ocean monuments).
It is a common misconception that only mooshrooms can spawn on mycelium. This is not true; it is the biome itself that prevents other mobs from spawning. Friendly and hostile mobs can spawn on mycelium in any other biome just like they do on any other block. Relatedly, mycelium outside of a mushroom biome does not spawn mooshrooms.
In real life, mycelium is the part of a fungus that gathers nutrients, comprised of web-like threads known as hyphae. Mycelium can be considered the roots of a fungus, whereas the mushrooms can be considered the fruits.
Sprinting and jumping while under a 2-block high ceiling causes a player to move at a speed almost twice as fast as regular sprinting speed, but it consumes a hunger point every second. It is also possible to jump 5 blocks when jumping out of the 2-block high ceiling.
Sprinting can be sped up even more by decreasing the ceiling height using trapdoors or by sprinting on ice.
1.2.16 has the highest minor version number of updates on Bedrock Edition, at "16". The highest on Java Edition is "17", with Alpha v1.0.17.
The textures in Minecraft were the same at first to the Legend of the Chambered textures but with time some modifications were made, and some items were completely removed.
When Notch released 1.2.4, he accidentally labelled it as 1.2.3_05 in game. This version also had leftover debug code that caused creepers to spawn far too frequently. This was later fixed with the release of 1.2.4_01, which means there was never a client version of 1.2.4.
Development versions for 1.2 started only a week after 1.1 was released.
Although higher levels of Fire Resistance have the exact same effect as Fire Resistance I, it is possible to achieve Fire Resistance II without commands, using the Totem of Undying.‌[Bedrock Edition only] The only other such effect is Nausea.
Rain actually falls one block into the void (Layer -1). This can be seen in Creative Mode by floating in the Void. Note that no particles are emitted from the rain, due to the absence of a block below it.
Rain still falls above the clouds. Notch's explanation is that the gray above the clouds during a storm is another layer of clouds and the origin of the rain.
Raindrop splash particles can be seen on top of blocks of layer 255 at most, even in biomes where it cannot rain.
You can also sneak while flying by holding the space bar and left shift keys simultaneously during flight.
If the player flies high enough in Creative mode, the sun or the moon can be seen through the fog when looking down, depending on which is below the horizon at the time; the player can also see the clouds at this time.
A player who gets into a minecart or bed while flying resumes flying when leaving the minecart or bed.
Players flying in the Void receive Void damage if they are below altitude -64, allowing them to fly a short distance beneath Void level (y=0).‌[Java Edition only]
Holtz's Minecraft skin is a moogle from the Final Fantasy game series. Holtz says "[He's] been considering making a custom player renderer just for [his] model so [he] can have proper moogle wings, similar to Nathan's model being upside-down, but [he] just can't seem to find the time."
Holtz added the Customized world type, which is an adaptation of his mod Wedge.
Holtz implemented rabbits.
Despite being crafted with a melon slice, Glistering Melon Slice cannot be eaten.
Glistering Melon Slice is not a misspelling of "glistening" — glistering is an English word meaning to shine or glisten.
1.14.1 was released 10 years after the first public showcase of Minecraft in the video "Cave game tech test ".
Beta 1.9 Prerelease 6 was released on 11/11/11 (November 11, 2011). That date was the planned release date for Minecraft 1.0.0 and MINECON 2011.
In Bedrock Edition, armor stands cause redstone ore to have a block update.
Attempting to place a bucket of water on redstone ore causes it to produce light.
18w44a is the first snapshot to be released on Halloween.
Amplified world generation can generate several floating islands, similar to the removed Skylands dimension.
The shattered savanna biome, even in the default world type, has an extreme landscape similar to Amplified.
Amplified world type was made by complete accident, when Jeb messed up some coordinates.
alpha 1.0.5.11 build unintentionally allowed beta users access to their Realms. If a beta user using this build accessed their Realm, the Realm would upgrade to 1.0.5 which would only allow the Realm owner and those also on the beta build to access the build until the full 1.0.5 release.
The first internal version of Pocket Edition Pre-release only had an ASCII renderer.
Between snapshot 14w21b and 14w25b in total 2651 files changed, 41995 insertions, 43425 deletions for a grand total of 285408 lines of diffs.
14w25a had a notably high incidence of new bugs, which Michael Stoyke (@SeargeDP) attributed to the fact that each developer was contributing a substantial amount of work that had not yet been combined in a snapshot.
1.8.2 is tied with 1.14.4 as having the highest number of pre-releases on a minor version, with seven.
1.8.2 holds the record of having the longest developmental time in a minor version, taking more than 2 months to complete.
Beta 1.8 Pre-release 2 ;) features a winking-face emoticon (";)") in its name, for unknown reasons.
One lava bucket has the highest number of smelts in the game at 100 items per bucket. This makes it 12.5 times more efficient than coal and charcoal.
If a mob holds a totem of undying, the mob also resurrects upon death and the sound effect plays. However, the animation does not appear.
20w07a was released on a Friday, which almost never happens with a first snapshot.
20w07a and 20w08a are currently the only 1.16 snapshots to not have introduced a new block.
Glowing obsidian makes an appearance in Minecraft: Story Mode - Season Two when Jesse places the structure block it spawns around the observer, and on the bottom of the obsidian cages Vos was in.
Glowing obsidian became unused when Silk Touch was added. Therefore, the block has never been obtainable.
Glowing obsidian has no name assigned to it, so its in-game name appears as tile.glowingobsidian.name. Despite this, it can be assigned a custom name using resource pack with a language file.
Although Blackstone can be used to craft stone tools and furnaces, it cannot be used to craft dispensers, droppers, pistons or other blocks that use cobblestone in their recipes.
Like with the crafting table, none of the tools seen on the side of the smithing table are real tools in-game.
Smithing tables are the only crafting station in the game that can craft only one specific type of item.
In Bedrock Edition, the "Classic Textures" resource pack uses the first smithing table texture from Beta 1.9.0.2.
The side textures of smithing tables depict a cherry-colored wood texture.
In Classic 0.0.13a, the world is originally square and only becomes long when a new level is generated. The original has normal terrain.
The game is renamed from "Cave Game" to "Minecraft: Order of the Stone" in pre-Classic rd-20090515.
There was a version in the launcher titled "rd-20090515", however, rd-20090515 is not on the Minecraft download servers - attempting to download will download rd-161348 instead, a much later version.
rd-20090515 is the version shown in the "Minecraft progress." video.
1.12-pre3 was released 8 years after Classic 0.0.11a, the first publicly released version of Minecraft.
In 1.RV-Pre1 sounds are saved in minecraft/sounds/buzzwords/sound_name.ogg where sound_name is replaced with the actual name of the sound, for example equipvr.ogg.The update was released before April 1st by the developers.
In 1.RV-Pre1 the overlay for the reality vision in the assets folder, cantseeshitcaptain.png, is a reference to a popular meme from the TV show Star Trek.
In 1.RV-Pre1 the shader for the reality vision can be disabled by using F4. However, when the player goes into third person view, the shader is activated again.
The blog post for 16w44a was the first posted by Thomas "ProfMobius" Guimbretière, using the alias Baguette.
In Survival Test, zombies and skeletons had a chance of wearing decorative armor, but Notch removed it in Indev. This feature was re-added in a similar fashion in Java Edition 1.4.2.
In Survival Test, the fastest mob was the spider, being able to move as fast as the player.
In 0.24, creepers were made from the failed pig model.
In Survival Test, the player's hand is pointed backwards and is rotated slightly. This was changed in Indev and remains the same.
In Survival Test, stone materials wouldn't explode when you used TNT on them.
In Survival Test,, creepers had melee attacks and only exploded when killed, the only food source was mushrooms, and you could get them by killing sheep and pigs or finding them in caves. The red mushrooms were toxic and hurt the player for 3♥♥. The point system was first implemented in this update. The player's fist also took 4♥♥ away from the mob the player punched.
In Survival Test, all mobs had 10 hearts of health.
Bedrock Edition 1.11.3 was released 10 years after Classic 0.0.11a, the first publicly released version of Minecraft.
Pocket Edition Alpha 0.15.1 has the shortest amount of development builds to date, along with Pocket Edition 1.0.3.
Bedrock Edition beta 1.14.1.2, the fourth for 1.14.1, was released before 1.14.0 had even been fully released.
1.1  is the first update to begin using snapshots.
Unlike all other release versions, 1.1  update had no further revisions (minor versions).
1.1 is the only major release version to not introduce any new blocks.
The animation for Sea Lanterns shows a very faint 'rippling' effect.
An early screenshot showed Infdev 20100227 marked as "Minecraft Indev".
The previous Beta 1.6 Test Builds (1 & 2) were released Privately. Beta 1.6 Test Build 3 was accidentally released to the public.
1.14.2 Pre-Release 1 was released ten years after the first private release of Minecraft, mc-161607.
In real life, diamond is commonly used for industrial purposes, generally as diamond-tipped drill bits and saw blades. They are usually used for cutting stone and other hard materials. Diamonds used for this purpose are typically not of gemstone quality.
1.14.4 is the first time an update has had a fourth minor revision since 1.9.4, with 1.10 through 1.13 only having two minor revisions.
1.14.4, along with 1.8.2, has the most pre-releases of a minor version, at a total of 7 pre-releases.
1.14.4 is the third time a minor version has had a greater number of pre-releases than its major version (1.14), with the other times being 1.8.1 and 1.8.2 of 1.8.
When destroyed by an explosion, the dragon egg always drops as an item.
The writer of the Minecraft comic WonderCraft, Samcube, was requested by Mojang to create official Minecraft posters. In a part of these works, one can see an area with an ender dragon and a chicken on top of a huge mushroom. In the same scene, the dragon egg is visible near the chicken.
The dragon egg was technically renewable on legacy console versions of the game, using the option to completely reset the end and get another 'first' dragon kill.
A turtle shell is the only non-enchanted armor piece in the game that provides a bonus effect to the player other than armor points.
There is no particular beige iron ore in real life. Colors of common real life iron minerals range from black or red to gold-yellow but none of them are truly beige.
About 0.6 percent of a Minecraft world consists of iron ore.
Eggs break mid-fall if hit by another projectile; the chance of spawning a baby chicken is not affected.
Throwing an egg at a nether portal breaks the egg when it hits the portal.
A thrown egg faces toward the player in first-person view while it appears rotated horizontally in third-person view. This is the case for all throwable items (ender pearls, eggs, snowballs, and all type of throwable potions).
When generated, abandoned mineshafts cut through the top bedrock layer(s), if they happen to generate at the bedrock layers.
Mineshafts can generate on top of other mineshafts. If you see two different ones intersecting each other anomalously, they are two different shafts, even if they somehow meet up perfectly elsewhere.
Mushrooms can be found at the bottom of mineshafts.
Despite it being considered a technical fault and odd generation, it is very common for mineshafts to intersect ravines.
The dirt room of a mineshaft never generates in the same chunk as (0, 0) in any Minecraft world.
Nine of the skins from the Campfire Tales skin pack: The Headless Haunter, Ol' Diggy, The Sea-Swallowed Captain, Rancid Anne, The Well Wisher, The Sham, Lumbering Jack, Crisp, and The Arisen Rose, in that particular order, were shown in screenshots in various tweets with their backstories captioned alongside them, sent by the official Minecraft Twitter account. These tweets were sent several days before 0.15.10 was released to all devices (except for the Arisen Rose tweet), as a form of 'Teaser', from September 30 to October 4 and were all sent at exactly either 3:01 am or pm.
Pocket Edition 1.1.5 is the last update to be released for the Pocket Edition series, including Apple TV Edition and will be replaced by Bedrock Edition.
If the ingredients of rabbit stew were eaten separately and the mushroom had become half of a mushroom stew, they would restore a total of 16 () and 19.2 saturation points. Without counting the mushroom, the separate ingredients would restore 13 () and 15.6 saturation points. Therefore, crafting rabbit stew results in a net loss of restorative points, though it is a lot quicker than eating all the ingredients separately.
Sprinting and jumping while under a 1 block gap high ceiling causes a player to move at a speed almost twice as fast as regular sprinting speed, but it consumes a hunger point every second. This can be sped up even more by decreasing the ceiling height using water source or by sprinting on ice. A similar effect occurs if the player sprints and rapidly hits swim at the same time on a set on fish mobs.
In real life, clay can actually be reddish-brown, not just gray, and can be often found under the surface and away from sand. This color is reflected in the appearance of terracotta, bricks, and flower pots.
A thrown snowball faces the player in the first-person view and appears horizontally rotated in third-person view. This is the case for all throwable items (ender pearls, eggs, snowballs, and all throwable potions).
The "hut" part of a swamp hut generates on or above the surface, while the wood "pillars" extend down until they reach solid ground. This means that if part of a witch hut is at sea level and another part is on top of deep ground, such as a ravine, the pillars on the deep-ground side go all the way down to the ground.
It is possible for swamp huts to generate on top of one another.
Swamp huts are one of five generated structures that do not generate loot chests (the others are desert wells, fossils, nether fossil and ocean monuments).
In real life, silverfish are small, relatively harmless, wingless arthropods that are often found in dark areas in buildings and the wooden pilings of seaside piers and trees. They are infamous for damaging paper-based products. During cold temperatures, they are known to enter a sort of "hibernation" by expelling most of the water in their body. During this state, they greatly resemble small stones or gravel, likely inspiring their Minecraft counterparts.
Unlike most Minecraft mobs, Silverfish do not have a plush toy.
Silverfish appeared in the April Fools 2.0 update as the Redstone Bug.
In Bedrock Edition, letting a silverfish enter regular stone bricks turns them into infested stone instead of infested stone bricks.
Using individual wheat items to fill a composter is much more efficient than using hay bales. The chance of getting the composter's level increased by at least one using 9 wheat items is ~99.92%, and the number of levels increased can be anywhere from 1 to 9. Using a hay bale, there are only two possibilities: increase composter's level by 1 (85%) or nothing happens (15%).
The compost texture is part of the podzol texture.
Snow actually falls one block into the void (Layer -1). This can be seen by digging a vertical shaft down in Creative mode, removing the bottom layers of Bedrock, and flying down into the Void. Note that no particles are emitted from the snow, due to the absence of a block below it.
Snow still falls above the clouds. Notch's explanation is that the gray above the clouds during a storm is another layer of clouds and the origin of the snow.
There is a never ending snowfall above a certain Y value, which turns into rain then rain turns into nothing.
The Sky Dimension is an inversion of The Nether, where as the latter is basically a large cave with monsters and a massive open space within, the former are peaceful floating islands spawn surrounded by open space. The Nether may also be thought of as being a hell with The Sky Dimension being a heaven; although the hazards present in each dimension are similar, falling from the sky dimension is just as lethal as falling from a cliff into the lava ocean in the Nether.
The Sky Dimension, similar to the Nether, has weather disabled. This is likely explained by the fact that it is above the clouds.
Far Lands do generate in the Sky Dimension, but the way they generate looks completely different to the Overworld Far Lands.
Guardians and drowned are the only hostile mobs able to spawn within the 58×58×23 area containing the monument; normal Overworld hostile mobs do not spawn inside.
Icebergs may generate on monuments, making elder guardians suffocate in icebergs.
Ocean monuments are one of the five generated structures that do not have a loot chest (including fossils, swamp huts, desert wells and nether fossils).
Honey bottles are the only drinkable items that can stack. They have a maximum stack size of 16.
Honey bottles are the only drinkable items that can restore hunger.
Honey bottles are 2 pixels more full than water bottles
If a number of items in the igloo furnace are smelted, the light generated melts the igloo window, turning the ice into a water source block. This is intentional.[Java Edition only]
Igloos are internally classified as a temple.‌[Bedrock Edition only]
The igloo is the first structure to use signs.
As of Village and Pillage, igloos with basements are registered as villages, due to having one villager and beds. Additionally, basements also generate brewing stands and cauldrons, which count as job site blocks.
It is possible for an Igloo to generate on a cliff or other incline, causing its secret area to be wholly or partially exposed.
1.15.2 Pre-Release 1 is the first pre-release of 2020 and of the 2020s decade.
In some vein formations, ores connect diagonally.
In real life, the rarity of diamonds is highly exaggerated. Gemstone quality diamonds, whose qualities are mirrored by the game's mechanics, need to be cut and processed very carefully, and therefore need to be found in very large pieces. Industry-grade diamonds, which are used in the manufacturing of most diamond-based tools, are relatively plentiful and much more affordable.
Due to how Minecraft vein generation works, it is possible to find veins with up to 10 diamonds even though the max vein size is 8.
When riding a pig on ice using a saddle, the pig moves incredibly fast, making journeys across long-frozen lakes easier.
By sprinting and jumping while on ice and inside a 2-block tall tunnel, it is possible to move 16 blocks a second, twice as fast as a full-speed minecart. By replacing the 2-block ceiling with trapdoors, it's possible to travel 1000 blocks in 54 seconds, or 18.518 blocks per second. However, this drains the player's hunger bar extremely quickly at roughly 1 unit per second.
Boats move extremely fast on ice; however, it is difficult to slow down or change direction.
Sugar cane can be generated next to the ice, though they drop as items if updated. This can be observed at random when running through a snowy biome.
Attempting to set ice on fire with a flint and steel causes no flames to appear, but the flint and steel's durability still decreases by 1.‌[Bedrock Edition only] The same thing happens with glass and the sides of non-flammable blocks.
Ice is classified as a transparent block and therefore does not conduct redstone.
Snow layers are the only transparent block that cannot be placed on ice.
When a player holds an ice block, the normals of the smaller model are flipped inside out, giving a strange effect.
In Java Edition, a clock can be viewed under the item statistics page as long as one obtained a clock at some point. It can also be viewed in recipe book if the recipe for it has been unlocked.
In Java Edition, the default resource pack for the clock contains 64 individual frames, each frame lasting about 18.75 seconds in real time (375 ticks) (1350 seconds (22 minutes, 30 seconds) in minecraft time).
When the time of day changes suddenly, such as after sleeping or when /time is used, the clock dial spins rapidly to catch up.
After completing 100 day-and-night cycles in Bedrock Edition, the player is awarded an achievement.
Although clocks do not function in the Nether or the End, the actual day-night cycle does continue.
Despite that redstone is used in its crafting recipe, the clock is neither a redstone component nor a redstone power source.
In Adventure mode, flint and steel cannot light fires, nor can it ignite nether portals (unless it has the tag CanPlaceOn:obsidian). However, it can still ignite TNT and creepers.
The name "Flint and Steel" is inaccurate considering there is no steel in the game and it's made with iron instead.
Dinnerbone is red-green colorblind, the most common type of colorblindness.
Dinnerbone's username is a tribute to an old friend of his named Teabone (T-bone).
Dinnerbone's favorite color is blue, his favorite foods are lasagna and pizza, and his "guilty pleasure" is milkshakes.
Dinnerbone hates fish and ketchup.
Dinnerbone does not drink alcohol.
If the player names any mob with a name tag with the name "Dinnerbone", the mob will flip upside down. This naturally extends to himself. A similar effect is applied when naming a mob "Grumm".
Dinnerbone can sometimes be found on Mindcrack with other famous YouTubers.
Dinnerbone was a member of the popular Hermitcraft server during its early days.
The source code of Minecraft: Java Edition may have been hosted in a private repository called "Mojang/Minecraft" on GitHub, which Bartosz Bok has referred to during Brigadier's development before its open source release.
Smooth Stone is the one of three blocks with a slab equivalent, but without a stairs equivalent. The other two are cut sandstone and cut red sandstone.
There is a splash text in Minecraft that says "Woo, 2pp!". This is a reference to 2 Player Productions, the company producing the Minecraft movie.
The proof-of-concept video for Minecraft: The Story of Mojang announced the possible future release of scarecrows as a mob.
The idea of the snow golem was first mentioned in the 20 minute version of the proof-of-concept movie.
On the 22 of December 2012 (when Minecraft: The Story of Mojang was streamed on Xbox Live), 2 Player Productions uploaded the film to The Pirate Bay, stating "We wanted to come here first because we knew the movie would end up here eventually..." in the description.
Dead bushes dropping sticks is based on a suggestion by Reddit user pedroff_1.
Dead bushes are the only plant-like blocks that are non-renewable.
Minecraft Feedback site misspells "Quartz Bricks can now only be crafted using Quartz blocks" as "Quartz Bricks can be now only be crafted Quartz blocks" and misspells "soul sand" as "soul band".
Unlike netherrack, fire does not burn indefinitely on nether quartz ore.
Nether quartz ore has the same blast resistance as other ores, which is more than the quartz block and netherrack combined.
The vast quantities of easily available nether quartz ore in the Nether, combined with the relatively large quantity of experience gained from digging it, make nether quartz mining one of the fastest ways to level up in Minecraft.
Nether quartz ore is generated as part of the dimension, while netherrack is generated as part of the biome.‌[Java Edition only] This can be seen, as when a Buffet world with the nether biome is generated, there is netherrack but no quartz ore.
In Bedrock Edition, if the Nether is generated in the Overworld as a biome, neither netherrack nor nether quartz ore is generated, but the terrain is completely made out of stone with bedrock ceiling.
The sprite of red apples was the same as used in Notch's game Legend of the Chambered.
As the block of redstone is not fully opaque, chests can be opened when covered by one. Also, two non-solid blocks, namely ladders and tripwire hooks, cannot be placed onto its sides.[2]
In earlier Java Edition 1.5 snapshots, Block of Redstone's texture was used for the locked chest along with the block of emerald in Java Edition 1.3.1.
Block of Redstone can be also called a "redstone block".
Using commands, it is possible to make chorus trees grow to heights not normally possible. This works because commands can reset the time value of chorus flowers, allowing them to grow indefinitely.
If the chorus flower from a chorus plant is removed using an axe and the chorus flower is then replaced back onto the chorus plant, the growth cycle is reset and the chorus plant starts growing again. This can be continued all the way up to build height limit.
Because breaking one part of the chorus plant breaks all parts above it, cutting a large plant can cause a brief performance drop.
The chorus tree is based off the Joshua tree, which branches and grows in the same way as the chorus fruit.
Mossy cobblestone does not have an infested variant.
Cobblestone, along with grass blocks, were the first two blocks to be added into Minecraft.
One block of diamond and one log is exactly enough to create 4 diamond tools with one or no sticks left over, depending on if players use a sword or a hoe.
The use of a diamond as part of the crafting recipe for a jukebox might be a reference to how Edison phonographs have diamond-tipped needles.
Unlike other similar blocks, podzol never spreads to dirt blocks, and it does not become dirt if a solid block is placed on top of it, no matter how long the block remains on top of it. Similarly, neither grass nor mycelium can spread to podzol.
In real life, podzol is a type of acidic, infertile soil found in subarctic taiga biomes and pine forests. Podzol literally means "under-ash" in Russian because it contains a layer of ashy soil that has been drained or leeched of nutrients. This explains why it does not spread like grass or mycelium as it is not an actual plant or fungus, nor can grass or mycelium spread onto it because it is infertile.
Golden carrots being used for potions of night vision is based on the common misconception that eating carrots can improve one's vision; this is true only if one has vitamin A deficiency.
The sun is visibly larger during sunrise and sunset.
If the player is underwater or underground and looks at the sun, it appears the same as the sun at sunset. This is due to the way the sun is rendered when in direct exposure to the sky.
Standing or flying at a height above the terrain of approximately 1.4× the render distance, the sun appears opposite to the moon in the sky, making it seem almost as if the player is in space.
Bookshelves top and bottom textures by default use the same texture as oak planks.
It takes 90 planks, 45 leather and 135 paper to make 15 bookshelves in order to get a level 30 enchantment.
Blocking allows for the slowest movements possible. This can occur when the player blocks, sneaks, and moves backward while under the effect of the slowness potion while going through cobwebs placed above still water on top of soul sand that is placed on top of ice. This causes the player to move at about 1/200 blocks a second, or 2/25 pixel a second (1 Pixel every 12-13s) on a default 16x16 texture pack. Blocking while sneaking and with the additional events (but without slowness potion) allows the player go at roughly 0.023854961832 blocks per second (1 block every 41.92 seconds).‌[Java Edition only]
Regular lanterns were likely to be a "replacement" version of the torch if they were added in the 2010 Halloween Update.
Lanterns are the fifth animated light-source in the game, the others being magma blocks, sea lanterns, fire and lava.
Regular forests biome also generates in patches within plains and regular deep ocean biomes, similar to how 'Hills' biomes generate within their respective base biomes.
Wooded hills biome also generate within plains biome as its 'Hills' biomes.
1.14.3 is the first time an update has had a third minor revision since 1.9.3; 1.10 through 1.13 only had two minor revisions.
In Pocket Edition alpha 1.1.0.9, the developers tried to fix a bug where different slab types override each other. The fix did not work.
Since glowstone blocks become block entities when moved by pistons, this momentarily stops them from giving off light. This will not be fixed.
Rarely, glowstone can be found touching the ground if the ceiling it was generated on was extremely low (2-3 blocks of clearance).
Glowstone, though being transparent, causes the sky light to count down as if it hit a non-transparent block, whilst still letting through this light.
A direct hit from three merged minecarts with TNT can reduce a fully diamond armored player to half a heart. However, if the TNT minecarts explode, they won't destroy any rails.
If a pumpkin is put on a player's head and go into spectator mode, the vision is still filtered even entered the view of a mob.
If an entity falls out of the world, any spectators taking its perspective die with it since they are still separate entities and take void damage.
All mobs' perspective can be viewed with the exception of the ender dragon.
Getting killed while on mob view makes the player respawn with the same shader view.
In the Chinese version, it is possible to access this mode in multiplayer by changing the "trust player" option, which can make new players come in as spectators.
Hitting a squid underwater causes them to rise approximately 1⁄3–1⁄2 a block.
Squid cannot be damaged by attacks to their tentacles.
Squid don't have a death animation.
Squid behave like some land mobs and attempt to ride a minecart. In Java Edition this is not always useful as rails and water cannot occupy the same block.
Squids are the first passive mob to spawn at any light level, in water, and without grass.
The squid's idle sound is barely audible.
Baby squid are exclusive to Bedrock Edition.
If a squid is out of the water, its arms swing more slowly as its oxygen meter goes down. When 15 seconds have passed, its arms stop swinging and the squid begins to suffocate.‌[Bedrock Edition only]
The selected texture pack is saved to the options.txt file in the .minecraft folder, so the "skin:" value can be manually changed to the name of the .zip. This can be useful if the texturepack crashes the main menu, thus making impossible to change the pack using the texture selection screen. Simply erase the pack name and it is reset to default.
Resource packs that only add textures are called "texture packs" in Minecraft Marketplace.‌[BE only]
It is possible to use ladders one block apart in a corner by placing every other ladder on the alternating side of the corner. This method requires jumping and shifting sides constantly.
By holding the jump key, players can still use water ladders that have ladders placed every other block.
If the player stops on a ladder and places a sign, the player remains in midair without having to hold Shift, because the game is paused in singleplayer. This does not work in multiplayer because the game is not paused.
Attempting to place a ladder on a spot another ladder occupies may instead place the ladder somewhere nearby (because of the ladder's hitbox).
It is possible to remove a ladder while standing on a ladder and holding the sneak key, but it can take a long time because the countdown for breaking the ladder often resets.
Consuming food, blocking with a shield or pulling back a bow, do not slow the player down while climbing ladders (unlike when walking, sprinting and swimming).
Like vines, ladders slow the player down when walked through.
A player on a slab in front of the ladder must jump to get on the ladder despite being only 1/2 block down.
Players can hold down the jump button while climbing a ladder to make the climbing speed faster.‌[Bedrock Edition only]
Lapis lazuli is based on the real stone for which it is named and has historically been a prized and rare stone used in jewelry and as a dye.
In real life, lapis lazuli is a blue gem that may be ground and processed into ultramarine pigment. Lapis lazuli pigment has been famously used in the production of illuminated manuscripts, stained glass, and cave paintings. It was also used by Egyptians for their jewelry and other valuable items.
According to Jeb, the concept for the stray emerged from a game jam the Bellevue team had, where they were just adding a bunch of stuff to Minecraft - whatever they wanted. Jason Major made a bunch of cool mobs and he thought this one fit really well with what they were already planning.
Strays and other variants of a skeleton do not know how to use a crossbow, despite the same using method as a bow.
Cows resemble Norwegian red cattle.
Cows in the PC Gamer Minecraft Demo are branded with a 'PCG' logo on their side.
Notch stated in a Tumblr post that all “breedable” peaceful mobs displayed traits of both genders and could breed with any other individual of their species. This applies to cows as they have horns and give milk (although, in some breeds, female cows also have horns).
If the player leaves a village during a raid, receives Bad Omen, and returns to the village, the effect is removed but has no effect on the existing raid.
A player cannot receive Bad Omen when indirectly killing a Patrol Captain. This includes burning with fire or lava, drowning, explosions, and suffocation, among other things. This also includes killing a captain with fireworks shot from a crossbow.
If the player kills a captain while in a village in Bedrock Edition, the animation, raid bar, and Bad Omen effect appear simultaneously. The effect disappears immediately after, then "flashes" again approximately 1 second later.
Xbox 360 Edition was added to the Xbox Arcade download section in November 2011, although it was only possible to download the ""It's here!" trailer" – via YouTube. Nonetheless, the entry held very high ratings.
In Xbox 360 Edition, there are also Minecraft-themed Xbox Live avatar items available. Among these are Minecraft shirts, pets, items, props, head wear, dashboard themes, and gamer pics, all of which range from $1/£0.64 to $2.99/£1.92 in price.
This URL for this snapshot is different from all other snapshots, as it adds a "0" at the end, making it "19w14a0".
Certain seeds return 0 in the internal code,[3] causing infinite arrays of caves and other structures to generate.[4]
The seed 107038380838084 returns 0 on the first call and 164311266871034 returns 0 on the second call, causing structures to loop on the X and Z axes respectively.
This quirk is exclusive to Java, as Bedrock Edition does not possess seeds that return 0 on the first or second call (however, 257678572 returns 0 on the 6th call). This quirk can also be seen in the Legacy Console Editions.
If a user modifies the Java Edition source code for any version between 1.7.2 and 1.12.2, and change a value from 2 to 0 for the 6th genlayer, a user can replicate biome generation from Legacy Console Edition on Java edition with the exception of mushroom biomes.
Only certain sections of the seed are used to generate specific features within the world. It is possible to generate multiple worlds with identical cave systems and other arrangements of generated structures simply by converting the seed into binary and tweaking the desired bits.[6]
An example is the seed generator using only the first 48bits to generate cave systems and badlands clay banding layers. Other features can also be broken, such as decorations.
In Bedrock Edition, entering a 1-digit seed (from -9 to 9) also generates a random seed. A workaround is by typing ddnqavb followed by any other letter from a through s. For example, ddnqavba generates the seed "-9".
Chest loot is not affected by the seed; a player can generate the same world twice and find different items in the same chest.
In Java Edition, the demo world seed can be played in the full version by entering North Carolina in the seed input.
There is a common misconception that spiders were brown in Classic 0.26 SURVIVAL TEST. However, thorough technical analysis of available evidence by Omniarchive on April 8, 2020, has revealed that they were almost certainly black.
1.7.4 has 8 snapshots, making it have the most snapshots among all minor updates.
If the nether reactor core was mined out while the nether reactor is active, the glowing obsidian would not turn into obsidian after the reactor deactivates. This also caused the reactor to stop spawning items and zombie pigmen, and make the day/night cycle freeze at nighttime for several in-game days.
The nether reactor core spire was composed of over 25 stacks worth of netherrack.
Excluding the core, any part of the nether reactor core could be mined after activation and it would still function. This way, the player could recycle the expensive gold blocks. It was possible to recover all 4 blocks provided the player worked quickly.
Because the nether reactor core spire could not replace blocks past the world border, when the reactor was activated near the edge of old worlds the player would be able to see the time set to night.
Dungeons are always connected to a cavern or other structure, although it's possible for the dungeon itself to overwrite most of a tiny cave.
It is possible, though rare, to find connected dungeons with multiple spawners and extra chests. It is also possible for a dungeon to generate over another, replacing the chests and spawner of the first.
It is possible, though almost impossibly rare, for a dungeon to be generated at bedrock level, thereby deleting the bedrock. In that case, digging through the moss stone can lead into the Void. Because the air below y=11 replaces itself with lava, this cannot happen in caves. However, it can happen in mineshafts.
Double-chest dungeons, as shown below, may have chests that form a perpendicular barrier between the wall and spawner (an exception to this would be in 7x7 dungeons, in which the chest cannot reach the spawner).
Dungeon is the only structure with chest loot that cannot be located using the /locate command.
Even though the iron blade on the stone cutter appears to be spinning rapidly, it deals no damage and has no hitbox.
According to Jeb, the reason behind the current crafting recipe using glass as opposed to chorus fruit or any materials introduced in 1.9 is as a means for players to craft end crystals in older worlds that the dragon has already been killed in.[1]
Placing water above an end crystal using a bucket causes a looping effect, where the fire is continuously put out and reinitialized as the water attempts to flow down and is stopped. The water does not spread, as it can flow downward, but is prevented by the reoccurring fire instantly taking its place.
Unlike the similarly-explosive TNT, normally hitting an end crystal makes it explode. However, they can be removed safely if they're immersed in water first.
Since fire is checked only when an entity moves, end crystals do not normally take damage from their own fire. Oftentimes, the fire remains after an end crystal blows up.
A historical rendition of the beacon block featured an animated entity within it, which resembled a yellow miniaturized end crystal. The bedrock platform of the end crystal entity would also render below the beacon, though this would normally be hidden within the block below.
On hard mode, End Crystals are actually far superior to any weapon due to increased explosive damage. Withers and the Ender Dragon become incredibly easy to kill, and even players geared with fully enchanted diamond armor can be killed instantly with a single well placed Crystal.
Blocks with high blast resistance can be used to shield a player from an end crystal explosion.
In some resource packs like Mythology packs, texture of end crystal has some symbols or letters (example: In Greek Mythology pack, end crystal's texture has got Greek letters).
The application icon for Java Edition is a crafting table, since 1.6.1. 1.6.2 had a strange icon like RubyDung versions. Before that, the icon was the Java icon. After 1.6.2, the icon is changed again. In 2013, the icon was a grass block.
The original inventory screen before January 29, 2010 was the crafting table interface, meaning there was no way of putting on armor yet, and the player could not be seen.
The sides of the table feature hammers, saws and pliers, which are not tools available in the game. They also appear to be made out of iron, which is not a part of the table's recipe.
The first beta for 1.14.1 came out before 1.14.0 was fully released.
The Frostburn Update has the fewest amount of snapshots to date, with a mere 3 compared to the 20–30 from previous updates.
The time span between the releases of 16w20a and 1.10-pre1 was only 2 weeks, unusual based on Mojang's history, as 1.8 and 1.9 both took around a year or so to develop.
The Frostburn Update had only 2 further revisions, 1.10.1 and 1.10.2, which drastically shrunk from 1.7 (with 7 revisions), 1.8 (9 revisions), and 1.9 (4 revisions). This trend of only two revisions continued for two and a half years, up until 1.13.2.
Invisible bedrock, a technical block in Bedrock and New Nintendo 3DS editions, shares many features with the barrier block.
In Minecraft 4k, there is a barrier on the bottom of the map, which is unbreakable by any means.
The barrier's blockstate file in the game's assets is functionally identical to most standard blocks in the game, using a single, unnamed variant that uses block/barrier as a model.
The barrier's vanilla block model defines only what texture to use for block breaking particles, and doesn't have a parent model or anything that would give the block a physical shape. However, using a custom resource pack that modifies the barrier block model to use the block/cube_all parent model (used by most simple blocks with only one texture) with the barrier item's texture as the block's texture still does not allow barriers to render.
The symbol used as the barrier block is not compliant with ISO 3864-1, as the diagonal line is mirrored.
Nylium a portmanteau of "Nether" and "Mycelium", the name of the part of a fungus analogous to roots.
[edit | edit source]
In real life, granite is an igneous rock consisting of quartz, mica and feldspar. Granite has different colors from gray to distinctive pink. The word "granite" comes from the Latin term granum, a grain, in reference to the coarse-grained structure of such a crystalline rock. The pink granite in Minecraft reflected to its real life counterpart that has potassium feldspar in its composition.
In real life, lapis lazuli is a blue gem that may be ground and processed into ultramarine pigment. Lapis lazuli pigment has been famously used in the production of illuminated manuscripts, stained glass, and cave paintings.
The banner image of 17w47a is an animated GIF. On some frames, trapdoors with the purple/black missing texture are displayed.
Even though emerald ore is rarer than diamond ore, emerald ore is generally found more often in mountains biomes than diamond ore, as the emerald ore blocks are generated in a more scattered fashion.
You can see upward through the bottom of an activated end portal because the portal block is not visible from the bottom.
If you drop a gravity-following block into the portal it causes the end portal area to clear and is placed on the end side, however it is destroyed when other gravity blocks or the player go through the portal.
It is not possible for a player to build an End portal in the Nether without using cheats or debug mode. However, if a player does manage to create a portal, it will be invisible and when a player goes through it, the end credits will play and the player will be transported to their spawn point in the Overworld. In the snapshot 20w14∞, this is also true of any other dimension that is not the overworld. ‌[Java Edition only]
Disregarding color, nether wart bears a strong resemblance to warted puffball, a type of fungi.
Nether wart's stage changes cannot be detected by a BUD, except the Observer block.
According to Jeb, polar bears were added after his son Björn was born. Coincidentally, "björn" is Swedish for "bear".
Unlike most other baby mobs, polar bear cubs have a unique sound effect that is not just a sped-up version of the regular polar bear sound effects; this is also reflected in subtitles.
Polar Bears are the first bears added into the game, later followed by pandas.
A saddle is considered "armor" by the game, but the value of protection to the pig is zero.
A saddle can still be seen if the pig is invisible.
Punching a pig or horse while holding a saddle causes the mob to wear the saddle, and it is removed from the player's inventory, even in Creative mode.‌[Java Edition only]
The "When Pigs Fly" achievement requires "Cow Tipper" even though leather is not used to craft saddles.
When riding a saddled mob the extra health bar is actually heart shaped saddles.
While a cave spider's hitbox is only 13.9% the volume of a normal spider's, its model's volume is 34.3% as large. The shadow is even larger: compared to the normal spider's shadow it has an area of 49%.
A direct hit from a Splash potion of harming (Instant Damage II) kills a cave spider immediately.
In 2017, Jeb showed interest in a suggestion regarding nether gold ore that was posted on Reddit. This comment also suggested that nearby zombie pigmen, the mob now currently known as zombified piglins, should become angry at the player when they mine nether gold ore. Jeb also showed interest in this aspect of the suggestion, and this may have been the inspiration for piglins becoming angry when gold of any type is mined near them.
When viewed on a map, the void is seen as the pattern used for an unexplored area.
This is because there are no blocks recorded in the void's area, just the same as if the player has not explored or recorded normal areas.
When falling below Y=0, the second to last line of the debug screen disappears entirely, and is replaced by "Outside of world..." This also occurs when a player reaches above Y=256.
The player can survive in the void with the Regeneration effect of level 6 or higher.
In Bedrock Edition, the Void is the same color as the sky in the overworld.
In Creative mode, using an ender pearl twice on the top layer of bedrock in the Nether causes the player to be transported into the void above the Nether.
Since giants need to have a light level both less than 8 and greater than 11 to spawn, they don't spawn from monster spawners. However, this spawn condition can be bypassed with a custom spawner, if it attempts to spawn an entity with valid spawn conditions riding a giant.
If the player names a giant using a name tag, its name appears inside its head.
Giants share the exact same model as the zombie. This means that changes made to the zombie model (for example, using a resource pack) change the giant's as well.
Notch removed the giants spawning capabilities because "they are too overpowered". He did not remove them entirely because "they are just too cool to remove".
If a giant is riding a minecart, it hovers way above it.
If a mob is riding a giant, unless it's a very large slime or magma cube, a ghast or the ender dragon, it is completely hidden from view by the giant's head.
Giants are damaged by potions of harming despite the fact that they use the zombie model, which is an undead mob.
Giants have the same hurt sound as the player does.
The giant's head and torso are not included in its hitbox, meaning hitting it in those areas does not hurt the giant.
Iron golems are hostile toward giants.
Giants, being capable of dealing 26♥ × 13 to 75♥ × 37.5, and having 100♥ × 50 health, means they are the strongest and the hardest-to-kill mob in the game, capable of killing players without armor in one hit even in Easy difficulty.
Giants may spawn naturally in some dimensions from the Java Edition 20w14∞ snapshot, as well as Illusioners, this due to the fact that the multiple dimensions from this snapshot have random mob spawn properties.
When written books are obtained with commands (without the correct data tag), the label shows "Written Book" and has the text "*Invalid book tag*" when opened. The book is signed and cannot be edited without commands.
Commands that were added to a written book using serialized JSON objects are executed through the chat system. This means that any command added to a written book can't be longer than 256 characters, which is the maximum chat line limit.
In Bedrock Edition in simplified Chinese (zh-cn), Minecart with Command Block is translated into "带有命令块的《我的世界》" (Minecraft with Command Block).
Pocket Edition Alpha 0.1.0 has a high chance of crashing if playing on Android 3.0 or higher.
Furnaces function as multiple real-world devices combined into one block: bloomeries and blast furnaces (for smelting ores), ovens (for baking and cooking), charcoal pits (for the charring of wood) and kilns (for baking of clay).
Tamed cats often sit on top of lit furnaces.
A lava bucket is the most effective fuel to use, smelting 100 items. However, a block of coal is the best renewable fuel, smelting 80 item.
Salmon also spawn in rivers because in the real-world in Autumn, salmon travel upstream, returning from the ocean to the streams where they were born, to lay eggs.
The salmon's ability to swim up waterfalls is actually based off salmon leaping into and above waterfalls in the real-world so they can get to the streams they were born in.
Buried treasure are the only structures that contain loot chests consisting of a single chest. They are also the smallest naturally-occurring structures in the game.
Iron golems become agitated and attack if a snow golem accidentally hits them or a villager while aiming at another mob.
Snow golems cannot be made by pistons because the code for generating snow golems are found in the pumpkin’s OnBlockPlace ("placed by a player") event.
Snow golems were the first utility mobs to be added to the game.
Snow golems can be created by endermen, albeit this is incredibly rare without the guidance of players.
To create the sounds that the dolphins make in the game, Mojang's lead sound designer, Samuel Åberg, went to Kolmården Wildlife Park to record real dolphins.[5]
If a dolphin is beached on land and in a hostile state, it moves slowly toward its target.
Dolphins originally had a separate head and body when shown in a clip at MINECON 2017. It is also shown in artwork for Java Edition 1.13.
Baby dolphins are exclusive to Bedrock Edition.
Real-life dolphins actually need air to survive, due to being mammals, and will not drown when out of water.
In the top left corner of the 2016–2019 launcher, a barely visible button could be found which randomly shows either a creeper face or a shrug kaomoji ¯\_(ツ)_/¯. It glowed white when clicked, but had no use at all. This was removed in the 2019 redesign of the launcher.
The creeper face, as well as a shrug, were used for the language selection menu during the beta phase of the launcher, but when a globe was added instead both were simply moved down to be kept as an Easter egg.
Hovering long enough over the "Play" button in the 2016–2019 launcher causes random mobs to appear on the right side of the window.
As production of PlayStation Vita cartridges have been discontinued,[12] the only way to purchase the PlayStation Vita Edition is to buy the game digitally via the PlayStation Store. Another option is to order a physical copy from re-sellers from websites like eBay and Amazon, but buying a digital copy may be more viable.
The popularity of this version of Minecraft in Japan produced a bundle with a Minecraft-themed backplate on the PlayStation Vita console, along with a downloadable Minecraft voucher, and a Minecraft-themed carrying case for the Vita.
When lily pads are placed on water source blocks that do not take up the space of the entire block (when the water is flowing to the block next to it), the lily pad appears floating above the water source block.
If the player sprints on lily pads, they appear to give off water particles. This is because the game thinks the player is technically on the water below the lily pad.
As the trend has been since version 1.2, the update notes say "Removed Herobrine", despite the fact that Herobrine was never part of the game.
Illusioners cannot attack when any non-bow item is in its hand (using commands).
Illusioners hold bows in a different direction compared to skeletons (more diagonally).
Illusioners cannot use tipped arrows that are in its offhand slot (using commands), but still can utilize spectral arrows.
The name "Mooshroom" is a portmanteau for "moo" (which is an onomatopoeia of the sound a cow makes) and "mushroom".
Mooshrooms are the fourth mob in the game that are directly affected by being struck by lightning.
In Minecraft Earth, there exists a buttercup-covered variant of mooshrooms known as "mooblooms".
In real life, andesite is an extrusive igneous rock, meaning that it is formed from magma (thus igneous) that had flowed out to the surface (thus extrusive) as lava and cooled down.
Andesite's intrusive counterpart is diorite, meaning that diorite and andesite are made of the same materials but diorite formed inside the earth instead of flowing out. In other words, andesite is rock formed from cooled lava, and diorite is rock formed from cooled magma.
Speed allows slimes to jump farther. High levels of speed can make slimes bounce out of view with just one jump.
One Minecraft lunar cycle (from full moon to full moon) takes 2 hours 40 minutes of playtime. This means there are approximately 9 lunar cycles in one real-world day (24 hours) of play.
Whereas the moon moves independent of other celestial bodies in real life, the Minecraft moon is fixed in the sky relative to the stars. Therefore, solar eclipses are impossible in Minecraft.
Standing or flying at a height above the terrain of approximately 1.4× the render distance, the sun appears opposite to the moon in the sky, making it seem almost as if the player is in space.
The moon appears to be lit from the north or south, whereas it should be lit from the east or west (by the sun). Being fixed opposite to the sun, it should be constantly full.
The star pattern is based on a seed, but not the current world's seed. Like the bedrock pattern, the stars are always based on the same seed, regardless of the world seed.
Explosions launch falling gravel.
If a player stands on a stack of sand or gravel, and the stack falls onto a non-solid block, the player falls fast enough to take damage or even die.
Gravel often falls into caves, making a mock dead end. If a player encounters a gravel dead-end while mining, removing the gravel may reveal additional passageways.
Ocelots are the first mob created by Jon Kågström, an AI specialist who worked with Jens Bergensten on Minecraft. Jens created the texture for the ocelot, as Jon had trouble doing so himself.
In real life, cats are known for their ability to flip upright during a fall, particularly larger ones; though they still might be injured by landing. This goes the same for ocelots.
Multiple tiled redstone lamps produce a pattern that resembles the truncated square tiling t{4,4}.
Redstone lamps are transparent on maps.
Wii U Edition (alongside Nintendo Switch Edition and New Nintendo 3DS Edition) are the most expensive editions of Minecraft to date, at US$29.99.
The PlayStation 3 Edition was released exactly two years earlier than the release of the Wii U Edition, on December 17, 2013.
The Nintendo eShop does not have a free demo for Minecraft, unlike the PlayStation and Xbox.
Wii U Edition does not have the exclusive features of the Xbox One and PlayStation 4 editions, also limiting blocks and world spaces and as well as lower render distance just like the Nintendo Switch Edition.
Buzzy Bees is the second update to not have "Update" in its official name, after Village & Pillage.
The Buzzy Bees update is the first full release update since Java Edition 1.9 to add only one mob.
The Buzzy Bees update marked the arrival of Bedrock Edition on PlayStation 4, discontinuing the final updated Legacy Console Edition, PlayStation 4 Edition.
The blog post for 16w43a] was the first posted by Maria Lemón. The blog post image is also the first such image featuring Agnes Larsson. Grumm is hidden in the river near the fishing bobber.
Two versions of Indev 0.31 20100203 may have been released Evidence suggests the existence of two versions being released very close to one another. The 23:27 blog post announcing this version's release occurred 4 minutes before this page's client jar was packaged (23:31). That blog post features Notch complaining about not yet getting mobs to function, yet gameplay of this page's client jar contains all of the old mobs, with animation. It's unclear whether Notch's release blog post was intended as a prank, because he ends the post with the teaser, "But I did get some stuff in to this update. I’ll keep the details secret this time, though. (No new crafting)."
The ability of smelting golden tools to get gold back was a feature suggested on Reddit.
The Luck and Bad Luck effects were going to be removed in 1.11.1, but lead developer Jeb changed his mind due to them being used in custom maps.
The Sweeping Edge enchantment was originally suggested as either Shearing Strike or Sweeping Strike by Reddit user ItsCraft.
1.11.1 had the shortest amount of snapshots of any update, with only one snapshot released.
1.11.1 is the second update one to have no corresponding pre-releases, after 1.1.
1.13-pre2 was released exactly one month after 1.13-pre1.
The pufferfish can poison the player in creative mode if another entity causes it to puff up.
In Bedrock Edition, the pufferfish plays the same sound effect as other fish mobs.
Similarly to chiseled sandstone, red sandstone, and nether bricks, chiseled polished blackstone has a face/symbol in its texture - in this case, a piglin snout.
Name tags were added at the request of Paulsoaresjr.
A stack of up to 64 name tags can be renamed at once. The cost is 1 experience level per stack, regardless of how many name tags were stacked.
To name a mob “Name Tag” the player must give the name tag a random name, then rename it back to “Name Tag”.
A Villager with a name tag turned into a zombie by a zombie with a name tag does not despawn, but a villager with a name tag turned into a zombie by a zombie without a name tag does despawn.
A compass can be viewed under the item statistics page, as long as one has made a compass at some point in the past. It can also be viewed in the recipe book as the search tab's icon, or when the recipe for it if it has been unlocked.[until JE 1.16]
Using /setworldspawn to change the world spawn also changes where the compass points.
The Lodestone Compass changes to a different texture from the normal compass in addition to receiving an enchantment glint.‌[Bedrock Edition only]
Notch originally planned for torches to become temporary light sources that would eventually burn out[4] and require re-lighting with flint and steel. This feature was briefly reintroduced on the April Fools' hoax version 2.0, but the feature was not kept in later versions. This was originally planned to take effect on October 31, 2010 with the Halloween Update, in which all torches placed earlier would become lanterns due to the change of the data value, but it did not happen. The Lantern, however, was later introduced into the game in 1.14.
Ender pearls can be used to teleport/move through non-solid blocks by pressing against the blocks and using the ender pearl at the player's feet until the player goes through.[5]
It is possible to spawn a thrown ender pearl using commands, but it does not teleport, displaying only the ender pearl sprite and disappearing.
If the player throws an ender pearl and then dies before impact, the pearl disappears and the player is not teleported.
If the player throws an ender pearl in survival mode and changes to creative mode before the pearl lands, the player is still teleported.
The player is teleported by throwing an ender pearl and entering the Nether before it lands. The pearl is not lost if an Ender Pearl is thrown into a nether portal and the player travels through the portal, the pearl lands and teleports the player as usual.
If multiple ender pearls are thrown in succession, the player can be hurt only once from fall damage within about a one-second span.
If a player dies from ender pearl teleportation, the death message says: "<player> hit the ground too hard".
Ender pearls have a small cone of travel; they do not all follow the same path when thrown in the same direction.
A thrown ender pearl face toward the player in first-person view while appear rotated horizontal in third-person view. This is the case for all throwable items (Ender Pearl, Egg, Snowball, and all type of throwable potions)
Unlike arrows, ender pearls cannot pass through an open fence gate, a cobweb, dead bush, string, levers, or any other non solid block.
When snow falls onto sweet berry bushes, the snow moves downward slowly (because the block slows entity movement) making the bush appear snowlogged. However, the snow breaks when it eventually hits the ground.[BE edition only]
Obsidian is one of the hardest blocks to destroy in Minecraft. In reality, obsidian is glass-like in texture and quite fragile.
In real life, obsidian is an extrusive igneous rock like andesite, meaning that they are both formed from lava that has cooled down.
Destroying an obsidian block with a diamond pickaxe, while underwater, without standing on solid ground would take 3 minutes and 54 seconds (without the pickaxe, it takes 4 minutes and 10 seconds). Either way, the player runs out of air long before the block is mined (unless a potion of water breathing is used).
Destroying an obsidian block without a pickaxe, while underwater, without standing on solid ground, while under Mining Fatigue 3 from an Elder Guardian takes 50*5*5*5*370, or 2312500 seconds, or 26 days, 18 hours, 21 minutes, and 40 seconds. The derivation is from hardness times 5 (from not using a tool that can harvest the obsidian block) times 5 (from being underwater) times 5 (from not standing on solid ground) times 370 (from mining fatigue).
It is sometimes thought that enough TNT can destroy obsidian. Although though its explosion resistance rating is finite, additional TNT or other explosives has no additional effect on an obsidian block. It would otherwise take 71.25 times the explosive power of TNT to destroy a block of obsidian. It is, however, possible to /summon an explosion strong enough to destroy obsidian.
The Blue Wither Skull has the ability to destroy obsidian as a special feature; its explosion is otherwise no stronger than a ghast's fireball.
The Obsidion Minecraft Discord Bot was named after Obsidian.
Similarly to the announcement of Update Aquatic, this update was announced during the development of the previous release, and before the features of that version were included in a full release.
Version numbers are the same for both Java and Bedrock editions, starting with this update.
When in third-person view, the eyes of ender fly out from the player's feet instead of their hand.
The player cannot throw eyes of ender in the Nether, the End, or Customized and Superflat worlds that do not have stronghold generation selected.
The lead is named as “leash” in the texture file.
If a player goes to sleep while holding a mob on a lead, the lead remains attached.
If the player attempts to land after flying on Creative mode with a mob leashed, the mob takes damage as if it fell (with the exception of mobs that are immune to fall damage, or if the landing block resets fall distance). See Fall Damage.
When using the /replaceitem command to put a lead in a player's head slot, the item gets rotated and positioned in such a way that it looks like the player is wearing a monocle.
An ender chest's particles exist only in the 1 block radius around the chest, so if the chest is placed next to a wall its particles are not seen on the other side.
Unlike chests, changes to an ender chest's name are not reflected in its inventory GUI.
Unlike chests, when broken, it does not drop the items inside it, due to the fact that the items aren't only in that chest.
If all ender chests are broken, the items inside are inaccessible until a new ender chest is placed.
Ender chests render as a full block when in the inventory, but not when held or placed.‌[Bedrock Edition only]
Even when the brewing stand is not in use, there is still smoke coming out of the top of it.
When a brewing stand is broken, particles from a bottle appear, even if no bottle is in the stand.
No matter what potion (including empty and water bottles) is in the stand it always looks like a full red bottle.
Brewing stands always face east, no matter what direction it was placed.
According to Searge, blaze powder being used as fuel was added as a way to not destroy the game progression because there is a brewing stand beneath the igloo, preventing the player from using it before going to the Nether
Pyrosomes are real-life tunicates with blue-green bioluminescence. They are also commonly called sea pickles.
The texture of the ancient debris is supposed to look like pressed metal plates.
Ancient debris yields the most experience of any item when smelted.
Despite ancient debris' rarity, emerald ore is actually rarer due to its vein size and chance per chunk. As a bonus, since netherrack can be broken much more quickly compared to stone or cobblestone, strip mining for Ancient Debris is a lot faster than strip mining for emeralds.
When a pig is struck by lightning, it transforms into a zombie pigman. If the pig was equipped with a saddle, the saddle is lost and the player dismounts.
Pigs are the oldest existing passive mobs in the game.
The player can travel through a space with a 1 block height by riding a pig.
When Notch was designing the pig, he accidentally mixed up some dimensions. This created what is now known as the creeper.
Gilded blackstone seems to combine the textures of blackstone and the original texture of nether gold ore in Java Edition.
Gilded blackstone is not an ore.
The Fireball entities, which are also known as "ghast fireballs", have the same texture as the SmallFireball entity.
Fireball hit damage is actually fire damage, as seen by the fact that they do not deal damage to a player with Fire Resistance.
When a dispenser with a fire charge is placed with a block directly in front of it, the dispenser shoots through it and lights a fire on the other side.
A fire charge flies infinitely far until it hits a block or an entity, even if it is outside the player's render distance.
When shot from a dispenser, the fire charge starts out stationary and accelerates, as though it is falling rather than being launched. Fireballs shot by blazes, however, maintain the same speed all the way up to the target.
All huge mushrooms have exactly 45 blocks besides the stalk, so on average, you can get 13.5 mushrooms from each huge mushroom.
Red mushrooms are rarer than brown mushrooms, but this is not the case for huge mushrooms.
The iron ingot is the most versatile item in the game, being used in 34 crafting recipes. The second most versatile item are planks with 33 recipes. To craft each recipe once, you would need 153 ingots, including 27 for the iron blocks in an anvil, and one for the tripwire hook in a crossbow.
Caves often intersect other generated structures.
In reality, the lodestone is a naturally magnetized piece of the mineral magnetite, which can attract iron.
In creative mode, if the player holds the sneak button and then double taps the space bar to fly, they jump up and are stuck at the height they jumped up in and stay like that until they release the space bar. However, this isn't a bug because the sneak key is also the key used in flying to a lower altitude, so using both keys at the same time purposefully keeps the player still.
In Bedrock Edition, the player uses a sneaking stance when flying downward. The player can also place blocks on chests, furnaces and other utility blocks in this stance, suggesting the player is actually in a sneaking mode. In Java Edition, the player no longer enters sneak mode when flying downward, but they still don't interact with blocks by right-clicking.
In Bedrock Edition, the player can bridge out by looking at the air block they are placing on, though it must be adjacent to an existing block. This works even if the player is not sneaking.[1]
In Java Edition, the player must travel to the edge of the block (usually by sneaking) and look backward to place the next block.
If the player sneaks immediately after sprinting, they will sneak faster that someone who is sneaking without the sprint.
Blazes can see the player through walls, like spiders and slimes.
When throwing a potion of invisibility on a blaze, the smoke remains visible.
According to Jeb, blazes look the way they do because all mobs in Minecraft are cuboid-shape, so to make them flame-like and magical, he created them as a core surrounded by rotating rods, and he gave them eyes so they had personality.[1]
Despite not having visible feet, blazes are still capable of making footstep sounds.[3]
Snow may still fall on top of snow blocks, making them look taller than they actually are.
When a snow block is on grass, the grass block changes to a different "snowy" texture as if a snow layer is on it. However, because snow is not transparent to light, the grass changes to dirt shortly after.
A texture known as "fluff.png" exists in files from the survival tests onward, that resembles snow. However, this was before snow was added, so this texture went unused.
In real life, diorite is an intrusive igneous rock, meaning that it is formed from magma (thus igneous) that has cooled and turned into the rock below the surface of the earth (thus intrusive).
Diorite's extrusive equivalent is andesite, meaning that andesite and diorite are made of the same minerals, but andesite rocks are formed outside the earth instead. In other words, diorite is rock formed from cooled magma, and andesite is rock formed from cooled lava.
Diorite is composed mainly of feldspar and small amounts of quartz and other minerals. It is an extremely hard rock and difficult to carve and work with.
In Minecraft: Story Mode, Reuben's grave on Episode 4 is made out of diorite and a new stair variant of it which cannot be found in Minecraft until the Village & Pillage update, which was announced months after Episode 4. It is unknown whether diorite slabs are present.
Until 15w31a, 13w36a held the record as having the most content added to the game in one developmental release, with as much new content in it as the full release of the Pretty Scary Update had.
Ladders and torches cannot be attached to the side of a farmland block, but signs can.
Farmland is not trampled when walking off of a slab next to it.
Farmland does not revert to dirt if the player jumps onto it, if a block is two blocks above the farmland being jumped on.
The flowing water that comes off of a source block hydrates farmland just as source blocks do.
Farmland in Bedrock Edition is a full-block, therefore a hopper cannot pick up items on a farmland from underneath it。
In extremely rare cases, a fortress may not generate any indoor rooms except one single lava room.
Sometimes, two or more fortresses can generate very close or even within each other, ultimately creating an even larger cumulative fortress.
Under the lava well, there is an opening out of the fortress, with a single block of nether bricks from which the lava spreads out.
Gold ingots are the only ingots in the game used alongside another item to craft another type of ingot; in this case, it is used with netherite scrap to craft a netherite ingot.
Minecarts appear to float above the track, as their model has no wheels.
If the player views their inventory while riding in a minecart, they appear sitting down in mid-air.
The player is able to teleport to another minecart while sitting in a minecart by right-clicking a minecart in their range.
If the sound is muted in the options while riding a minecart, and then turned back up, the minecart no longer makes noise in the client until the player exits the minecart.
If a saddled pig is riding a minecart, the player can ride the pig. Doing so causes the minecart to be able to ride freely at the player's walking speed. It is unknown whether this is a glitch.
It seems that hunger does not deplete while inactive in a minecart (at least in normal difficulty).
In Xbox 360 Edition, before TU19, four gold blocks stacked on top of an obsidian block could be found inside the tutorial world's desert pyramid. This is a reference to Achievement Hunter's Let's Play Minecraft series, in which this combination is used to create the "Tower of Pimps" (seen right), a structure first created by Gavin Free, which is now used in many episodes as a trophy.
If one block of gold is considered to be equal to one meter cubed, then one block of gold has a mass of 19,320 kilograms, making it the heaviest real-world matter available in vanilla Minecraft if element blocks are not considered. A player's inventory has 36 slots, with each being able to carry 64 gold blocks; therefore, a player can carry a maximum number of 44,467.2 tons of weight, not considering armor or putting things in shulker boxes (which theoretically increases the weight by 27 times). This is equal to the weight of five Eiffel towers.
While a raw cod cannot be equipped in the head slot in Survival mode, equipping it using commands causes it to appear at the side of the player's head.
Soul sand can generate on the floor of caverns and lava pools below Y=60 only if it generated in that same column at Y=60 or above.
Because soul sand is not as high as a full block, standing near lava while on soul sand sets the player on fire.
If a water current is pushing the player diagonally against a wall and soul sand is the block adjacent to the player's head when the current ends, it causes the player to jump.
If snow or carpet is over soul sand, the effects of it being a partial block are avoided because the player walks on the cover block, not the soul sand.
Despite soul sand being a type of sand, it does not fall the same way sand and gravel do.
Falling gravel turns into an item when it falls on soul sand. This means gravel cannot fill in lava if soul sand is underneath.
In Bedrock Edition, bells formerly had unused data values with only a side texture that was required to ring the bell.
In Bedrock Edition, bells deflect any projectile that does not disappear when hitting a surface (arrows or tridents).
Despite some villages generating with more than one bell, villagers need only one of them to meet and spawn iron golems.
While being uncraftable, it is implied that bells are made of gold, due to them being used for bartering with piglins ‌[upcoming: JE 1.16].
If a villager tries to give another villager food near a bell, there is a chance it might hit the bell with the food and cause all the villagers to run, thrower included.‌[Bedrock Edition only]
In Pocket Edition, the third-person view allows the player to reach further than in first-person.
When it is activated, the conduit displays the heart of the sea's texture in the center of its model.
When destroyed by an explosion, the block always drops as an item.
If it had been possible to activate a conduit with fewer than 16 blocks, its effective range would be 0 at 0–6 blocks, 16 at 7–13 blocks, and 32 already at 14–15 blocks.
The achievement obtained by activating a conduit refers to the system of whirlpools in Nordland county, Norway.
Translucent blocks (blocks with two different transparencies), such as slime blocks, are now able to be implemented due to a new rendering system.[2]
A minecart leaving a rail onto a slime block can continue on a rail on the opposite side, if it has sufficient momentum leaving the initial rail.
Slime blocks under soul sand make the player move slower than if the player was just walking on soul sand. This is also apparent with ice.
Rabbits do not jump while on a slime block.
Entities launched upward by a slime block on top of a piston achieve slightly more than 6.4 blocks of lift, including the lift from the piston. Entities launched sideways across normal blocks or air are moved 3.510 blocks in the direction of the launch.
While falling, placing a slime block while just before impact prevents all fall damage.
Slime Blocks are invisible if seen from the clouds.
1.13.1 has five snapshots, from 18w30a to 18w33a, making it have the second most snapshots among all minor updates, behind 1.7.4, which had 8.
Snow can be stacked to a full block beside a cactus without destroying the cactus.
Snow layers of 2 to 7 thickness prevent hostile mobs from spawning.
In Spectator mode, if the player is positioned at the correct height, they can see the snowy texture of the top of the grass blocks.
Because bamboo grows quickly (on average 1 growth per 200 seconds), just 500 plants in an automatic farm produce more items than a hopper can collect. A single hopper can move only enough items to keep 6.25 furnaces running.
Bamboo is one of the few plants that cannot be processed by a composter, along with poisonous potatoes, chorus fruit, and dead bushes.
Flowing water breaks bamboo shoots but is blocked by mature bamboo stalks.
1.9.0 is the only update to Bedrock Edition to not receive a minor update after the release of a major update.
In Bedrock Edition any stem adjacent to a melon block appears connected to it, even if the melon was not grown from that stem.[4] Due to this, if a melon block generates between two stems, it connects to both of them. Pumpkins also do this, although they do not connect to plants of different species.
A melon may drop fewer melon slices than is required to craft a melon block.
The Bedrock Edition logo is a lot flatter and cleaner than Java Edition.
The name "prismarine" was created by the now deleted reddit user AjaxGb during a naming contest, where Jeb was looking for a name for the block.
In Bedrock Edition, if the player leaves the world during a thunderstorm and rejoins, it would only be raining.
Lightning, unlike other weather effects, does not have an image file associated with it. Thus, it is coded directly into the game engine, allowing for dynamic, realistic lightning.
In Bedrock Edition, lightning strikes closer to the player more often than in Java Edition, due to spawn distance limits.
If multiple lightning bolts strike a single villager at the same time, the number of witches spawned as a result is equal to the number of lightning bolts, making it possible, but extremely unlikely, to get multiple witches from one villager. This also works with pig-to-pigman transformations, but not creeper-to-charged transformations as the latter is just a change of state rather than a new entity creation.
In Java Edition, a pillager's crossbow eventually breaks if the pillager shoots at the player repeatedly, leaving the pillager with no method of attacking.[2] This causes its behavior to change as well; it walks at random similarly to passive mobs, but always faces any player in its field of view. The pillager also always holds its arm up, similar to an attacking vindicator. No other mob runs out of durability on their weapon. For example, a skeleton or illusioner could shoot arrows forever, as their bow does not lose durability.
In Java Edition, a 2×2 area made of iron bars can make a square shaped hole big enough for the player and most mobs to fit through, but not rain, water, etc. that can be used as an easy entrance for an underwater house, and even an exit if pistons are used. Glass panes work in the same way.
If a sign or a painting is placed on iron bars, it appears to float in the air.
Iron bars also prevent fire from spreading, i.e. surrounding a fire with iron bars prevent wooden items from being lit aflame.
Despite apparently being thin enough to do so, iron bars do not let a ghast's explosion touch the block beneath them as long as the block is protected from other angles of the explosion affecting it.
If an iron bar is connected to a block and a rail is placed on the block, the top texture of the iron bar disappears.
While curing a zombie villager, iron bars placed nearby speed up the healing process. The same happens with beds, and both these things occur in the stereotypical prison cell, encouraging players to imprison them.
The player cannot shoot arrows through iron bars.
Because iron bars are 1 block high, the player can normally jump over iron bars, unlike fences.
In the code, iron bars are known as fenceIron.
At the end of the credits, the following quote is attached. It's widely, but controversially attributed to Mark Twain: “	Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things that you didn't do than by the ones you did do. So throw off the bowlines. Sail away from the safe harbor. Catch the trade winds in your sails. Explore. Dream. Discover.„ — Unknown
Humans were the first mob ever added to the game.
Humans, when spawned, may head to the left for half a second, before turning around to attack the player. Zombie pigmen may also do this on occasion.[verify]
If a human spawner is placed in Java Edition Beta 1.8 or later, it appears blank and no mobs spawn.
Coding for humans was still present until Java Edition 1.8 (under the generic name "Monster"). Only the human model was removed in Beta 1.8.
Humans use the old player model, so they are actually slightly taller than the player.
Humans sometimes found it difficult to retaliate against other mobs that hit them.
Despite being taller than the player, humans looked up at the player when chasing them. This is because their actual hit-box and eye height were shorter than the player's hit-box and eye height.
Honey blocks are not full blocks: despite taking up 163 pixels, the collision box is only 14*14*15 pixels. The bottom face of the honey block is the same depth as a full block, though it is only 14*14 pixels. Small entities such as arrows are free to move through the gap between honey blocks as they are under 2 pixels wide. Only when entities are partially "in" the honey block (i.e., they are touching the 143-pixel hitbox) can they slide down against it.
In real life, bees eat honey when the temperature is low and flowers are difficult to find. Otherwise, pollen and nectar are their primary food sources.
Honey blocks slow down players regardless of their movement (flying with elytra, swimming, etc.).
The bottom surface of the honey block does not slow down entities.
The slow on descending also stacks with the Slow Falling status effect.
It takes 1 minute 14 seconds to slide down 256 honey blocks.
The player cannot place some blocks on the honey block such as vines, ladders and torches.‌[Java Edition only][3]
The honey block and its ability to slow the player's jump, fall and movement speed strongly resemble the Honey Block from Terraria.
Bone meal cannot force chorus flowers to grow.
The smallest possible fully-grown chorus tree (assuming the growth is not disturbed) would have only 5 chorus plant blocks, and the tree (including the flower) would be 5 blocks high. The largest possible tree would be 22 blocks high.
When chorus flowers reach age five, breaking them and replanting them on the same chorus plant block (even on a different face) can allow the plant to grow further.
The bottom of a cactus block does not deal damage to mobs. In Bedrock Edition, the top of a cactus also does not deal damage.[2][until BE 1.16]
Cacti can be placed underwater, provided they are placed on sand, and they grow if they break the surface.
Cacti can be placed next to saplings, but the cactus breaks when the tree grows.
Endermen can move and place cacti. Thus, they can increase the cactus population in deserts by moving cactus blocks as they grow.
Signs can be placed on top of cacti.
It is possible for cacti to generate on blocks other than sand due to terrain generation; refer to the gallery for examples.
Cactus can be used in the desert to see if the player is in a newly generated area. If most of the cacti around the player is only one block high, then it is most likely new land.
Dying from touching a cactus displays "[playername] was pricked to death" in the chat messages.
It is possible to place blocks on top of a cactus.
It is possible to place redstone next to a cactus block without destroying it.
By placing more cactus blocks on top of a cactus, it is possible to create an arbitrarily tall cactus. However, this does not grow naturally.
A 19 block tall cactus can be found on the seed 5146129728954094 at coordinates (24665312, ~, -22989152), in Java Edition, must be on 1.14.4 version.
Cacti are one of the very few methods in the game that can destroy items or gear made from netherite.
1.7.0 features the least amount of content in any major update.
Sometimes, Eyes of Ender can be found in the End portal slots which will help in saving some of them (10% for each frame). There is a very rare chance that an end portal will generate fully filled.
Purpur is the word for a specific shade of purple in multiple languages, including Swedish, Polish, German and Cornish (and French pourpre to a certain extent).
Chiseled Purpur‌[Bedrock Edition only] is an unused purpur block that has the texture of the normal Purpur Block and is obtainable via /give @s purpur_block 1 1 or inventory editing.
Smooth Purpur‌[Bedrock Edition only] is an unused purpur block that has the texture of the normal Purpur Block and is obtainable via /give @s purpur_block 1 3 or inventory editing. Its in-game name is tile.purpur_block.smooth.name.
Five eighths of all Minecraft players are playing on Minecraft China
Sieges cannot occur on mushroom fields, but zombies can spawn outside of the mushroom biome and walk into a nearby village.
In real life, kelp is not considered a plant, but rather algae.
If an end gateway is broken (e.g. in creative), players can still enter the gateway on the other end. This teleports the player to the broken portal, which does not regenerate.
Once an end gateway generates on the main island, the corresponding gateway in the outer islands can generate, even if the player has not yet entered the portal on the main island, or the section of the outer islands has already generated without the gateway.
Using the exitportal tag and the /setblock command it is possible to create a gateway portal in the Overworld and program it to go to a location.
If a block of sand has snow on it and is made to fall, the snow is destroyed‌[Java Edition only] and does not drop snowballs.
Since falling sand is considered an entity, it can be launched in a TNT cannon, similar to an ignited piece of TNT.
Sand falls at the same rate when submerged in water, or lava, or air.
If a player is standing on a stack of sand or gravel, and the stack falls onto a non-solid block, the player can fall fast enough to take damage or even die.
Sand falls through torches without breaking, if there is air below the torch.
Sand and gravel take about 0.45 seconds to fall one meter.
The sand texture is rotated if a block of sand turns into a FallingSand entity, similar to ignited TNT blocks. This is not the case with gravel.
Since falling_block is considered an entity, blocks of sand without supports may disappear for a split second and a falling_block entity is summoned. This is also the case when it's landing, but the entity (not the block) disappears instead before a block is placed.
Sand or gravel placed on top of a 2-block-high plant floats in the air until receiving a block update. This glitch was removed and later restored intentionally.
In Minecraft Earth, there exists a mushroom-covered variant of chickens known as cluckshrooms.
When a chicken is riding a minecart, it is impossible to attack the chicken rather than the cart as it is completely inside the cart's hitbox.
When a chicken is killed while falling, the corpse also falls more slowly than normal, and the wings still make a flapping animation.
Chickens are able to "hide" within hoppers due to their small size, protecting them from lava or water that might be directly on top of the hopper.
Chickens are the only Overworld mob (without the use of hacks/inventory editors) that can breed without a separate item farm, by building a suitable area, collecting their eggs, and throwing the eggs back onto the ground. See also chicken farm.
A few weeks before the end of Java Edition Beta, Notch tweeted that he changed the chickens to ducks,[3] causing a turmoil on Twitter. A few days later, Jeb, still getting feedback on the idea, stated that it was just a joke.[4]
The changelog for Pocket Edition Alpha 0.3.0 referred to chickens as ducks.[5] Notch later referred to chickens in a blog post as "the chicken/duck/whatevers".[6]
If the player throws eggs at glass panes, there is a small chance for the baby chicken to spawn on the other side of the panes.
If an egg is thrown into the water, there is still a chance for a chick to spawn.
Chicken corpses can also lay eggs.[7]
Chickens spawn more frequently in jungles than in other biomes.‌[JE only]
The Husk was created by Jason Mayer at a game jam and shown to Jens Bergensten.[1]
Husks are a bit bigger than regular zombies.
On April 26, 2011, Notch stated that the automapping code can be used to share custom paintings and books in the future.[2]
If a player is standing behind a painting, other players do not see their name.
Paintings are not actually attached to the wall. When looked at closely, there is a visible gap between the painting and the wall.
The texture on the back of a painting is the same texture of wooden planks but darkened slightly.
The original Herobrine hoax is confirmed to be painting with custom textures.
Mushrooms can generate on the leaves of trees.
Naming a vindicator "Johnny" causes the vindicator to become hostile toward most mobs, except other illagers and ghasts; a reference to The Shining.
Vindicators have blue eyes, unlike other illagers, who have green eyes. In the Texture Update, vindicators and illusioners were changed to green eyes, but in 18w47b the color of the vindicator's eyes turned blue again.
Villagers do the third-highest melee damage of all the non-boss mobs, first being the giant, second being the iron golem and fourth being the ravager.
The highest possible altitude the player can legitimately climb to is Y=256, although explosions, elytra launchers, piston slime block bounces, and Riptide tridents can all propel the player far beyond this limit.
In Java Edition, mushrooms can appear on the nether's bedrock ceiling.
Five updates for Windows 10 released from 2016 to 2018 were codenamed "Redstone", referencing Minecraft.
If a bow is enchanted with a level 1 enchantment, it always gets Power 1.
Bows are the first ranged weapon in Minecraft.
Bows with its enchantments are effective against single targets, while the Crossbow enchantments affect multiple targets.
Bows were intentionally left unchanged in the Texture Update as to appear to be made of a different wood type from crossbows. 
The maximum number of blocks that can be generated in the Overworld is approximately 921.6 quadrillion (9.216×1017) blocks, assuming a distance of 30,000,000 blocks in either direction. The total area is about 8 times the surface of the Earth, or approximately the surface area of the planet Neptune. This means that storing a filled world, with no entities or block entities, would require 3.6864 quintillion (3.6864×1018) bits (409 petabytes) for the block data alone, based on the fact that each standard block is assigned 4 bits of information. By manually modifying the game, it is possible to generate the world up to 2,147,483,647 blocks (the 32-bit integer limit) in either direction.
A 1:1 (1 block = 1 meter) scale map of the Earth, built-in Minecraft, would be 510.9 trillion (5.109×1014) blocks in size. Assuming the map is one block deep and uses 1 byte per block, its size would be approximately 475,800 GB (464.7 TB). A Moon-sized map would be made of 37.95 trillion (3.795×1013) blocks. Its data size would be 35,340 GB (34.52 TB).
Although wither roses are technically renewable, they are very dangerous to obtain renewably; the player would need to spawn the wither without killing it.[until 1.16.0 & 1.16]
Using certain glitches, most non-renewable items can be obtained indefinitely. However, the use of such glitches are not considered a renewable method.
In addition to the items listed, experience and all status effects and enchantments that can be obtained in survival are also renewable.
In Minecraft Earth, all items are renewable, since tappables and adventures regenerate indefinitely. Items that cannot be obtained directly through these means can be crafted, smelted, or otherwise obtained using only renewable resources.
The color codes almost exactly match, in order, the 16 colors available using a Color Graphics Adapter (CGA), as released in 1981. Only color 6 differs; the value for color 6 in Minecraft –  #FFAA00 – differs from that made for CGA –  #AA5500.
The light level emitted by the respawn anchor is congruent with the redstone signal strength given by a comparator.
Bone meal can be used on the sides or bottom of a grass block, as well as on a grass block with plants already on top of it.
Regardless of if it succeeds in fertilizing, bone meal makes green sparkles. However, like smoke from a torch, the sparkles appear only if the player has particles set All or Decreased.
Render Dragon was designed to be usable in Java Edition. However, it is currently not used in that edition.
Strangely, when smelting cobblestone blocks, the cracked form of stone, they turn into stone without cracks. Yet, when smelting stone bricks without cracks, they turn into a cracked variant. This could be a reference to two different processes: how rocks expand when heated, and causing fractures, which could make the stone bricks crack; or simply melting the cobblestone so it reforms into igneous stone.
On Bedrock Edition, there is an unused data value for stone bricks called smooth stone bricks, it can be obtained through commands but is unobtainable in survival mode or through the creative inventory. The vanilla game does not assign a name to this block, so it uses the block's translation key. A name for this block can be assigned with a resource pack like any other block.
Purchased versions of Minecraft have code from the PC Gamer demo, which was not used until Java Edition 1.3.
PC Gamer changed the following to the world: 53 red wool, 90 snow blocks, 112 black wool, 3 chests, a sign, 22 gunpowder, a nearly broken iron pickaxe, a nearly broken iron axe, a nearly broken flint and steel, 4 coal, 5 bread, 4 string, 12 torches, 2 sticks, and 3 compasses.
The PC Gamer demo has files for functions added in later updates, such as the sound effects for wolves, weather and pistons. However, the files are not used in the game.
In the PC Gamer DEMO if the player digs directly underneath the sign telling them how to open the chest, they can find a chest that contains 22 gunpowder. This serves as an attempt for the user to show what the player had learned.
In the PC Gamer DEMO if the player goes to sleep in a bed and skips the night, it removes that time from their clock, decreasing their play time.
In the PC Gamer DEMO if the player has a bucket with them after the demo expires, they can use that bucket to milk a cow despite not being able to interact with anything else.
In the PC Gamer DEMO the player can also interact with boats after the demo expires.
In the PC Gamer DEMO if a player goes left when they reach the PC Gamer sign, they find a skeleton dungeon. The dungeon is located in a rectangular pit with cobblestone walls and fallen sand filling it. One chest is visible, blocking a stream of water and the other chest and the skeleton spawner are buried in the sand.
In the PC Gamer DEMO while mining, if the player presses E, then keeps mining, the pickaxe does not move until they stop mining.
The "PC Gamer" logo can be mined. It is composed of snow blocks, red wool and black wool.
In the PC Gamer DEMO if the player digs straight down at the spawn point, at bedrock level, there is 1 diamond ore.
In the PC Gamer DEMO the game files can be modified in such a way, so that the player can receive unlimited play time.
There is no Debug screen in the PC Gamer demo. The reason is most likely that new players might get confused with all the info stored in the screen.
20w06a is also the first snapshot where the second digit is a "0".
20w06a is the first snapshot to include the word "Snapshot" in its name.
20w06a is the first snapshot of 2020 and of the 2020s decade, and the first snapshot not to start with a "1".
20w06a is the first version in over a decade to add a new set of tools to the game.
In 1.15 Pre-Release 2, unlike the surrounding pre-releases, the "r" in the word "pre-release" is capitalized, like how it was in 1.14.x pre-releases.
Minecraft: New Nintendo 3DS Edition is the third version of Minecraft which allows players to play together without an Internet connection with one person per system, using the Local Play feature on the Nintendo 3DS family of systems. Java Edition, Bedrock Edition, and Legacy Console Editions (Xbox 360, Xbox One, PS3, PS4, and Wii U) need an Internet connection for multiplayer to work with multiple systems, while Legacy Console Editions (PS Vita and Nintendo Switch) have the additional option to toggle local multiplayer via the main menu.
Exclusive to New Nintendo 3DS Edition, the original Stonecutter can be found in the Creative Inventory. It's only purpose is decoration.
Despite Pi Edition technically being a modified version of 0.6.1, Pi Edition had sneaking two years before it was added to Pocket Edition in 0.12.1.
On April 1, 2018, the Texture Update was "released" on Java Edition as an April Fools' joke and the new 8-bit default version of textures were released for Java Edition. The new textures were available in versions of 1.12.x and versions from 17w43a to 18w11a. It was announced that all editions of Minecraft would get these new textures. The new textures were actually the original textures using 8-bit color, leading to a drastic reduction in detail.
The official artwork for the Village & Pillage update shows a witch holding a potion with one hand, despite the fact that witch's arms are always folded like those of a villager.
Equipping armor stands with certain blocks and items can cause rendering glitches. According to Searge this is due to transparent rendering on entities not yet being supported.
Bedrock Edition has a version exclusive armor stand model, which includes posable arms.
A player with Fire Resistance can swim in lava without taking damage, although the swimming speed is slower.
A player cannot sprint-swim on lava.
An arrow shot into flowing lava catches fire, but not if shot into still lava.
A water source block placed 1 block away upward diagonally (but not through corners) from a lava block first flows in the direction of the lava, then other directions facing away from the lava. This happens because water physics treat the lava block as empty, and try to flow to it. Once the water turns the lava into obsidian, the water physics update to flow in all directions. (The same thing happens with lava flowing over water.)
Although lava is a liquid, it is not possible to drown in lava. This applies to all mobs. However, it is still possible to suffocate in lava. This applies to almost every mob.‌[Bedrock Edition only][6]
A player sleeping in a bed cannot be damaged by lava.
If the lava is changed to be transparent via a resource pack, it does not become transparent.
Unlike water, lava does not deactivate elytra.
In Bedrock Edition, repeaters have no bottom texture; they appear transparent when viewed from below.
A guardian's eye is actually the "head" part of the mob's model. This gives the illusion of a dynamic eye.
Underwater, guardians emit deep, growl-like sounds, but on land, they emit high-pitched squeaks.
Guardians' laser-beam attacks are affected by the potion of strength, which normally affects only melee attacks.
When placed or spawned on a slime block, guardians start bouncing and continue and each bounce higher than the last, until each bounce brings the guardian to 17 blocks height.
In the texture file for the guardian, "jeb" is written in the bottom right corner.
If summoned with {NoAI:1}, the guardian's eye still follows the player.
The player's eye level (according to coordinates on the debug screen) is 1.62 meters. Since their eyes are 28 pixels above their feet, leaving 4 pixels above their eyes (0.23m), this makes them 1.85 meters tall and 0.925 meters wide. However, the player's hitbox is 1.8m tall and 0.6m wide, the hitbox of a crouching player is 1.5m tall‌[Java Edition only], and the hitbox of a player gliding with elytra or swimming is 0.6m tall.
In the July–August 2016 issue of Lego Club Magazine, it is mentioned that Steve is Alex's boyfriend. It is also mentioned that Steve is a miner, builder, and alchemist, while Alex is a builder, explorer, and hunter.
Before 18w43a, 15w31a holds the record as having the most content in one developmental release, having nearly twice as much content as Java Edition 1.4.2 had in October 2012.
"Ravager" and "Behemoth" were listed as alternate name suggestions for the illager beast.[2] In Java Edition 19w05a and Bedrock Edition beta 1.11.0.1, illager beasts were renamed to ravagers.
In Java Edition 3D Shareware v1.34, ravagers dropped yellow keys.
In Java Edition, evoker fangs can hurt ravagers, so evokers may kill their mounts while riding ravagers. However, this does not happen in Bedrock Edition because evoker fangs do not hurt them.
Ravager was mainly inspired by the mythological creature, Manticore, especially the one from Dungeons & Dragons.[3]
Ravagers were unused during snapshot 18w46a, but were added as a raid exclusive mob in snapshot 18w47a.
Even though ravagers aren't a type of illager in Java Edition, their texture is in the "illager" folder in client.jar.
Player can spawn ravager with riders with command‌[Bedrock Edition only]
The use of sand in the crafting recipe references dynamite, a different high explosive than TNT, consisting of nitroglycerine mixed with diatomaceous earth (which is mostly silica, the same chemical compound as yellow sand).
If TNT is blown up just as an arrow passes by, then the arrow is redirected opposite of the blast.
Although flint and steel cannot light fires in Adventure Mode, it can still ignite TNT.
It takes 19.75 blocks to fall for it to reduce the timer for one second.
Although primed TNT normally gets caught in cobwebs, TNT propelled fast enough flies through them without slowing down at all.
It is slightly smaller than a full block when activated, as with all entity versions of blocks.
Using flint and steel to ignite it sets it off at once, but fire must burn it for many seconds before triggering
In Pi Edition, TNT by default doesn't do anything, but when set to data value 1, it ignites when broken.
The longest fuse time of TNT is 27 minutes and 18.35 seconds, or 32,767 ticks.
Attempting to ignite TNT while sneaking results in the block being lit on fire, rather than the TNT becoming primed.
Standing behind blocks during an explosion reduces knockback and damage taken.
20w06a is the first snapshot of 2020 and of the 2020s decade, and the first snapshot not to start with a "1".
In Java Edition, most particle textures can be changed using resource packs, however, the color of smoke particles used in redstone, portals, and endermen cannot be changed without mods.
Status effect particles appear where the player face is pointing.
The elder_guardian particle always follows the player regardless of what its location has been set to.
Redstone repeaters emit particles, but redstone comparators do not.
In Bedrock Edition, burning entities emit rounded particles with a fire animation.
There is a particle that is internally used to implement the item pickup animation, but it cannot be summoned with the /particle command. Before the name was removed in 1.13, it was called take.
The first three tracks of Volume Alpha are connected together, and so are tracks 5 and 6, 9 and 10, 14 through 17, and 19 through 21. The last two tracks are from C418's previous album "Life Changing Moments Seem Minor in Pictures".
Note blocks start at the pitch F♯. Few musical instruments are tuned to F♯.
Because a note block is a wooden type block, a note block directly on top of another one produce a string bass sound when powered.
Chiseled sandstone has the image of a creeper on it, while chiseled red sandstone has the image of a wither on it.
The idea of the wither appearing on chiseled red sandstone was suggested by Reddit user ULiopleurodon.[4]
Cut sandstone and cut red sandstone are two of the three blocks with a slab equivalent, but not a stair equivalent. The other one is smooth stone.
In Minecraft's source code, the luminescences are defined using the floating point values in the third column. In a weird quirk, these floating point numbers are fractions of 16, but are multiplied by 15 to get the integer light value.
The carved pumpkin is the only headgear that obstructs the player's view.
Pumpkins, mob heads and banners are the only blocks that can be placed in an armor slot without commands.
Each chunk has a 1⁄32 chance to generate a pumpkin patch (grass blocks are required).
The enchantment table actually produces the particles emitted from the bookshelves. These particles originate inside the Enchantment table and are relocated to the bookshelf almost immediately, but travel slow enough to be briefly visible. The particle that enters and leaves the bookshelf is always the same "letter", but the ones traveling into the bookshelves are black.
Enchantment tables are mostly made of obsidian, and thus have a blast resistance of 1,200 and cannot be destroyed by TNT, although they can still be mined by any pickaxes.
Enchantment tables are midway between slabs and full blocks height-wise, so they could be potentially used as a TNT cannon's range-amplifier instead of slabs or trapdoors
When the player is invisible, the enchantment table can still "see" the player and open up.
On the enchantment screen, captions in the Standard Galactic Alphabet includes several in-jokes: On October 1, 2011, Notch tweeted an image of the enchantment screen, with enchantments .[7] The first enchantment translates into "Well Played Internets You Are Good", the second translated into "These Names Will Be Random And Confusing", and the third translates to "Each Spell Costs Experience Levels". Three of the possible words for enchantments are "the elder scrolls," likely a joke at Bethesda, creator of "The Elder Scrolls" series and whose parent company, Zenimax, attempted to sue Mojang for the name of their game Scrolls. The words "klaatu berata niktu" are a (misspelled) reference to "Klaatu barada nikto", a phrase that originates from the 1951 movie The Day the Earth Stood Still and has been since used as a reference in many other movies, cartoons and games. Similarly, "Xyzzy" is a magic spell in the game "Colossal Cave Adventure" and has been used in several other games as an Easter Egg or cheat code. The word "embiggen" is a fictional word coined by The Simpsons quote: "A Noble Spirit Embiggens the Smallest Man". The words "phnglui mglwnafh cthulhu rlyeh wgahnagl fhtagnbaguette" are a quote from H. P. Lovecraft's short story "The Call of Cthulhu," apart from the extra "baguette" at the end.
Pocket Edition Alpha 0.11.0 has the most build versions of any Pocket Edition version, with 14 builds.
If a sheep spawner is placed via /setblock, the sheep model spinning inside appears with one of the six naturally spawning colors. Independently from the displayed color, all six variants are able to spawn, the usual chances apply. To guarantee sheep to always spawn with the desired color, additional NBT tags can be applied to the spawner, utilizing the Color tag.
Sheep can eat grass through partial blocks, and also while moving in minecarts.
Sheep cannot fit through the gap if the 90-degree intersection of two fences is removed whereas the player (and most other mobs) can get through easily.
While an evoker is not engaged in combat and /gamerule mobGriefing is set to true, it changes the wool color of any blue sheep within 16 blocks to red. It signals the spell by producing orange color particles () and making a "wololo" sound.
Chain is made out of two iron nuggets and one iron ingot, but its blast resistance is the same as the block of iron.
Unlike iron bars or walls, it does not connect horizontally. A solid but not a full block, it allows for many sizes of mobs and players to pass alongside each piece horizontally. When players throw an item or mob die with the loot accidentally thrown into the gap, the item can pass alongside it.
Despite its name, it cannot be crafted into chainmail armor.
The chain block is actually using the top texture of the lantern.
The phantom was added into the game as a result of winning the MINECON Earth mob poll on Twitter as "Mob B".
Phantoms are currently the fastest non-boss mob in the game, traveling at speeds of up to 20.83 blocks per second.
At one point before the release of 18w10a, the phantom texture was made red, but it was decided that it appeared too much like a Nether mob.[1]
The phantom was originally going to have a mouth, like the drawing shown during MINECON Earth, but it was eventually scrapped because "it looked so much like a muppet".[1] Earlier designs can be seen on Minecraft's Instagram account.[5]
Phantoms are the second mobs to fear cats, with first being creepers.
Similarly to the chiseled versions of sandstone, red sandstone, and polished blackstone, chiseled nether brick has a face/symbol on its texture. In this case, a wither skeleton skull.
Nether bricks are the only blocks that have both a fence and wall variant.
A player can earn a maximum of 28 experience points from killing one slime and all the slimes that split from it: 4 experience from the largest, 8 experience from the 4 it splits into, and 16 experience from the 4 each of those split into.
A named large slime that dies produces smaller slimes with the same name.
In Java Edition, with commands, the size of slimes can be customized. Sizes go from 1 up to 256; the size-256 slime is the largest of any mob in the game, bigger than the ender dragon.
Small slimes are the weakest of all mobs; they have only 1 health point and deal no damage, despite being a hostile mob.
Because a slime's movement speed is tied to its size it becomes impossible for the player to outrun a size 8 slime on flat ground without potion effects.
When a slime is searching for nearby players to attack them or check to see if it should despawn, it checks not from its outer edges, but instead from a point in the center of its hitbox on the x and z-axis and the bottom of its y-axis. This means when a slime is spawned with a huge custom size it can be right in front of the player and be completely passive, it may even despawn despite its outer edge is less than a block away if the slime is large enough.
The in-game restrictions on books are not hard limits. Third party editors or commands can make books have more than 100 pages‌[Java Edition only] (2,147,483,639 pages), more than 256 characters per page (32,767 characters per page), can change author names, and can have colored titles, among other things. These books still function properly in vanilla Minecraft, meaning the player may encounter such books on adventure maps or multiplayer servers.[1]
Although the name blank is only 16 characters long, the player can give it a longer name using an anvil.
If the player renames a book and quill in an anvil before signing it, it retains the name from the anvil instead of taking the name from signing.
If the player renames a book and quill in an anvil before writing in it, they cannot write anything in the book. If something is written in it before it is renamed, then it functions normally.
Because of the massive text limit, players on certain servers have figured out how to "Book ban" other players by filling a shulker box with books filled with random characters and unicode symbols, and then tricking players into picking up the book. The player who picked it up is instantly disconnected from the server due to the massive amount of data they just recieved, and they are unable to log back in unless an admin clears that player's inventory.
When a larger magma cube that has a name dies, the smaller magma cubes it spawns also have the same name, just like slimes.
With only two beta versions released for it, 1.10.0 has the least number of beta versions across all major Bedrock Edition updates.
Similarly to the ravager originally being called "Illager Beast" before its official name was chosen by the community, the Hoglin's name was also chosen by the community. Its initial placeholder name was "Piglin Beast".
Hoglins are the only hostile mobs, other than the unused killer bunny, that can be bred.
Baby hoglins are the only baby mobs that grow up that drop experience, when killed.
In Bedrock Edition, there are unused texture files named hoglin_meat_raw and hoglin_meat_cooked that are textured identically to raw beef and cooked beef, respectively.
Hoglins are the only general nether mob that does not spawn in the nether wastes biome.
At 1:00 GMT, the splash text in 2.0 is huge and says "APRIL FOOLS!" in pink letters and obstructs the title screen.
Bedrock Edition 1.6.0 is the first to not receive an official name by Mojang since the release of Alpha 0.13.0, and also not mentioned on minecraft.net nor mojang.com since Alpha 0.14.0.
Pocket Edition Alpha 0.14.0 is the first Pocket Edition update to receive an official name by Mojang.
Originally, Java Edition 1.0.0 was planned to be released as Beta 1.9, but after a few pre-releases were pushed out, it was decided that 1.0.0 would be the version name, and to push the release date back to during MINECON 2011.
The 2014 April Fools joke references the version villagers were implemented in as Beta 1.9, even though they were technically a 1.0.0 implementation.
Aside from marking the "true" release of the game, Java Edition 1.0.0 is notable for being the last update to be developed by Notch before he left the Minecraft team.
Java Edition 1.0.0 breaks the naming conventions for top-level release updates. For example, were it to follow the same naming scheme as 1.0.0, 1.1 would be "1.1.0", 1.2 would be "1.2.0", etc. This format is, however, used in Bedrock Edition.
The first snapshot of Java Edition 1.13, 17w43a, was released in the same week of the year as 18w43a.
In the minecraft.net blog post introducing 18w43a, Adrian Östergård captioned the section describing loom using the phrase "Bröther, may I have some lööm?". This is a reference to the cat wanting fruit loops internet meme.
18w43a holds the record as having the most content in one developmental release, adding nearly 3 times as much content as the entirety of Java Edition 1.4.2 did in October 2012.
The elder guardian's eye is the "head" part of the mob's model, giving the illusion of a dynamic eye.
The elder guardian texture has the name "jeb" on it.
According to Jeb, elder guardians were introduced to encourage players to solve the temple maze rather than dig through it easily. He acknowledges there are ways around it, but players still have to solve the challenge in a different way.[1]
Also according to Jeb, the "jump scare" by an elder guardian is unintentional, instead, he added it to provide a visual cue as to why players get slowed down by mining fatigue.[1]
In Java Edition 3D Shareware v1.34, elder guardians drop blue keys.
Pocket Edition Alpha 0.16.0 is the third Pocket Edition update to receive an official name by Mojang.
There is a developer version of 0.16.0 released on MINECON 2016.
Pocket Edition Alpha 0.15.0 had the shortest amount of development builds to date for a major update, with 3 (6 if Realms is included) builds being released in the timespan of only 10 days.
Pocket Edition Alpha 0.15.0 was the second to have an official name.
Pocket Edition Alpha 0.15.0 had the most minor versions of any Pocket Edition update, with 10.
The blog post for 20w18a includes an image comparing the prior redstone mechanics to the changed mechanics. Previously, the before mechanics were labeled as 1.15.2 mechanics, despite the presence of a target block, which was introduced later than 1.15.2. The image was later changed to say “Previously” in order to correct this. There is still an error in the caption saying: "Comparison between 1.15.2 and 20w18a"
When a sugar cane is broken at the second level, the time resets (for example, if a two-block high sugar cane is broken, but is just about to grow to the third stage, it would reset that time).
By placing more sugar canes on top of a sugar cane plant, it is possible to create tall sugar canes (up to y=255, the maximum height for building), although they do not naturally grow this high.
Before sugar cane received an official name, they were sometimes referred to as bamboo, a block added 9 years later. Other names were "reeds" and "papyrus".
Bees are the first flying arthropods. The other arthropods are silverfish, endermites, spiders, and cave spiders.
Bees are the only arthropod mob that can exist in peaceful difficulty and are not necessary to earn the Monster Hunter / Monsters Hunted advancements as they are passive.
Bees were made to be half a block in size because Mojang considered this size to be the cutest.[4]
Bees pollinate the top half of sunflower blocks.
In Bedrock Edition, bees fly faster when swarming a player or a mob.
In real life, baby bees look nothing like their adult counterpart but are larvae instead.
Despite inflicting poison on the player, real-life bees are venomous, not poisonous.
The damage tag of an enchanted apple obtained in Bedrock Edition is 1.
They are the only food source in the game that restores health points when eaten.
The player's hand does not disappear in first person mode after death.
Dr. Zhark appears in the credits after the End Poem as the creator of the horses, including zombie horses.
If a player pulling a zombie horse with a lead enters a boat, the zombie horse swims after them at the same speed as the boat.
A player riding a zombie horse is dragged along if their zombie horse is being pulled by a lead, and can even be lifted up in the air in the same way.
The zombie horse still existing in unused versions.
Grass block, along with cobblestone, were the first two blocks added to Minecraft.
Grass blocks and dirt blocks changing between each other is a very common cause of chunk updates.
A grass block has become the favicon for minecraft.net, and is the icon for the Minecraft launcher and the Bedrock Edition app.
In MINECON's goodie-bags, grass, along with the creeper, diamond, and the player, were given as foldable decorations.
1.12 was the only major update to Minecraft Java Edition released in 2017.
1.12, along with Java Edition 1.8.2, had the most pre-releases of any update at the time with a total of 7 pre-releases. This was later broken by Java Edition 1.13, with 10 pre-releases.
The demo mode can be played by all players regardless of whether they have yet purchased the game.
It is possible to install modifications on the Java Edition demo.
Servers can be started with the --demo flag (this is technically what the launcher does). Everyone who joins the server sees the demo message.
If one tries to play a demo version prior to 1.3 from the launcher using a non-premium account, they can play the full version. This is because 1.3 is the version that added the demo mode to Minecraft, so earlier versions do not have the code necessary to recognize that they are in the demo.
Typing in "North Carolina" in the seed screen of the full version gives the same world seed as the demo version.‌[Java Edition only]
It is possible to play in game modes other than Survival in the demo mode by opening up the world to LAN with cheats enabled and executing /gamemode command. This does not remove the time limit, nor the demo message. ‌[Java Edition only]
If the Minecraft shortcut and directory is moved to another hard drive, etc., it remains in the demo version, and the previous worlds do not appear.
It is possible to enter the server list by opening to LAN and enabling cheats, then execute the /kick @s command to see the option to go back to server list. However, servers cannot be joined due to an invalid session.
If a world is downloaded, it can be played by putting the world folder in "saves" and renaming it to "Demo_World". If there is already "Demo_World", it must be first renamed or deleted. There is a chance that the demo timer has decreased or expired. This is due to the timer being used by the world creator while building the world. You can complete the game, because the game doesn't restrict anything besides the time limit and one demo world.
The consumption of pufferfish inflicting the player with Nausea and Poison is actually based on reality, as real pufferfish contain the extremely dangerous toxin Tetrodotoxin within their organs, especially their liver. Tetrodotoxin leads to quick death through respiratory paralysis. Muscle tissue and blood contain trace amounts. In East Asia, pufferfish are considered a delicacy known as fugu, as small parts of the fish are actually edible. Any chef preparing fugu must have special licensing/certification to prepare this dish.
The time span between the releases of the first snapshot, 16w20a, and the first pre-release, 1.10-pre1, is only 2 weeks, which is abnormally short by Mojang standards.
Powered rails were originally a suggestion for golden tracks.
If you have the software Microsoft paint, you will have an easier job with making shapes in Minecraft. Select a shape from the tool bar and make it on the thinnest setting. Then, draw it so that the horizontal and vertical pixels are equal, and zoom in all the way. You should be able to tell how the mini-squares paint is composed of are arranged.
According to Jeb, originally they wanted a system for a village to expand in the population if the player improves it. But they found that it was computationally expensive to evaluate what constituted a house, so to make it simple, they decided that a door with an inside and outside counts as a house; however, the house was later changed to beds.[3]
Prior to Village and Pillage, the farms in villages would avoid overhanging by filling in the area below them with dirt when they spawned. When a farm overhangs a ravine, a tall rectangular dirt structure generates underneath. Buildings would fill the area below them with cobblestone, often resulting in the same behavior.
Occasionally, surface ravines generate through villages, causing missing pathways or even entire buildings sunken into the ravine. This also applies to cave entrances and other surface oddities.
In rare cases, players can find a tiny village consisting of one house, or even just one job site-building (a building with job site blocks) without any houses (building with beds), causing the village to not spawn any villagers.
The plains village is the only type of village with much of its architecture resembling its old counterpart prior to Village & Pillage.
The item frame is based upon a suggestion on Reddit, like the ender chest and flower pot.[4]
The item frame is the only entity to reference a block model.‌[JE only] Because of this, the texture of the frame border is the same as the birch planks texture.
In Bedrock Edition, when an item frame is in the inventory, the player cannot move the item frame to another slot (this also applies to chests and other storage) or drop the item frame. Also, when the item frame is in the player's hand, the player cannot break blocks, interact (like doors or gate fences, except for removing items from an item frame) or place the item frame.
Arrows "stick" to the water in a cauldron.
The inside of a cauldron is 0.3125 (5⁄16) blocks tall.
A cauldron holding water is the only way to have water in the Nether without the use of commands.
The water within does not work like water in the physical terms; the player cannot float/swim in it, and no bubble/water particles are produced.
The player can still 'use' the cauldron without a bottle or water bucket. However, it has no effect on the cauldron or the player.
The maximum distance the player can get between the bobber and themselves is 33 blocks.
Skeletons can be pulled into their own arrows.
When casting the rod into a portal, the bobber may stick to it like a normal block, go through and travel in the Nether, or stop on the next block behind the portal.
If the player stands directly in front of a column and casts the line onto a block above the player, the line falls downward.
If the bobber hits a painting, the painting breaks.
The player can get into bed after casting a line, and the line remains in the water until the player wakes up and reels it in.
A damaged fishing rod can be repaired by crafting it to a carrot on a stick and then depleting the durability of it.‌[upcoming: JE 1.16]
Shipwrecks that are generated on their side are always keeled to port (their left side).
The door in the lower deck of the ship can be used to replenish oxygen.‌[Java Edition only]
If the player looks closely at the stern section of a shipwreck (only when their models are pointing up), on one side, one stair block is replaced by a slab.
If the campfire is waterlogged, already lit, or something flammable is adjacent to the nearby air block, using the flint and steel on the side of the campfire sets the adjacent air block on fire instead.
If the player stands on the same block as a placed tree sapling, the tree still grows over the player, causing suffocation as it pushes the player out of the block.
Saplings can grow without the required amount of light if bone meal is used.
Working on an anvil doesn’t remove enchantments to items but they can be removed by repairing on a crafting grid and grindstone.
When obtained through the /give command with no stored enchantments, the enchanted book has no attached enchantments, but still shines as if it is enchanted.
A book enchanted with Unbreaking III appears in both the tools tab and combat tab of the creative inventory.
Though illusioners are unused, they can also be spawned as a raid captain.
If a witch hits another witch with a potion, the witch who is hit becomes angry and targets the other witch, however it is impossible for either witch to kill the other (without help from a player), due to their use of Healing potions and their resistance to each other's splash potions.
Witches do not use the equipment in their swamp huts, but they can be used by players.
The odds of a witch dropping the maximum amount of drops possible (6 items total) without a Looting enchantment are 1 in 81 (1.2%).
Witches throw healing potions at illagers even if they attack them.
Witches are extremely difficult to kill via suffocation or cacti (though not impossible), due to their frequent use of healing potions.
When drinking a potion, a witch's nose lifts up and points forward.
The player can see the short mouth of a witch from the side, only if they are drinking a potion and lifting their nose.
When the subject of witches dropping sticks was brought up, Dinnerbone jokingly replied that it's because witches are made of wood.[7] He later explained [8] that it was a reference to this scene from Monty Python and the Holy Grail.
The witch is based on Slavic folklore called Baba Yaga, which is why it lives in a swamp hut.[9]
A witch's nose slightly waves when idle.
Despite being physically similar and appearing to be allied with them, witches are not considered illagers.[10]
Explosions with a power greater than 100 look mostly the same from the outside, as only certain lines are used to determine if a block breaks. However, some of those lines continue underground.
An explosion powerful enough to break bedrock would have a blast radius of over 30,000,000 blocks. If it were an uninterrupted blast, it would cover 238,775,501.2 blocks. However, explosions follow certain lines, not every block (see previous). However, this would not drop the bedrock.
Explosions going off in flowing water or lava apply propulsion to entities, but don't affect any blocks, regardless of the blocks' blast resistance.
Underwater explosions don't emit smoke particles.
Explosions can redirect projectiles, including ender pearls.
Explosions can break blocks on the other side of surviving blast-resistant blocks.
Explosions propel dead mobs' bodies, if they go off just after the mob dies.
If primed TNT explodes in a large, solid cube of stone blocks, it creates an exact 3×3×3 cube inside. Experimentation confirms that a TNT detonation causes a 3×3 hole in a solid block of anything with a blast resistance less than that of water, but more than 2.5 (e.g. crafting tables). This implies that 3×3 is the minimum possible result of a TNT detonation without the blast being resisted altogether.
If a Falling Sand entity falls into Primed TNT when in water, it deals block damage.
Every block that has a higher blast resistance than cobwebs can block a ghast's fireball and remain intact.
Launching a rocket by hand on a wooden pressure plate activates it. The same doesn't hold for stone pressure plates, or for a dispenser placing a rocket onto a wooden pressure plate.
2012 New Years is what inspired Jeb to add fireworks.[3]
If the player shoots a firework into a Nether portal, it explodes in the Nether.
Firework Rockets are absent from the New Nintendo 3DS Edition, meaning it is impossible to boost Elytra flight in this version.
The minecart with furnace is excluded from Bedrock and New Nintendo 3DS editions on purpose. In a tweet, Jeb considered removing it from Java Edition.[2]
The terminology of a beehive being a man-made enclosure for bees is correct, as opposed to a naturally occurring bee nest.[4]
If a carpet is placed on top of a fence, a player can jump onto the carpet, while mobs cannot (except rabbits).
Getting hit by someone else (or shooting yourself with a Punch enchanted bow while sprinting forward) while in midair can cause the knockback to propel you over a fence you would not be able to jump over normally.
Placing a carpet on top of a fence does not reduce the fence or wall collision box down to one block, it just provides a platform one block high around the fence/wall to make it easier for climbing on the top of the fence.
Projectiles get stuck in the collision box of the fence and remain there if shot from upward.
The name "Ghast" is a portmanteau of the words "Ghost" and "Ghastly" together.
The player can go inside of a ghast by falling through the top of it or flying up underneath it. If the player stands on top of the head, the player sees inside of it.
If a ghast is trapped in a 1-thick cube, it shoots fireballs through the cube. This is because all mobs that shoot spawn the projectile one block in front of it to prevent the projectile from hitting the mob.
On rare occasions, ghasts spawn in such a way as to see through blocks (usually trapped on all sides in a tight area). When this happens and the ghast has a "line of sight" through those blocks, it launches a fireball in the player's direction.
C418 revealed in an AMA on Reddit that ghast sounds are taken from his pet cat, which he makes when disturbed while sleeping.[12]
Two ghasts are featured in the LEGO set "Minecraft Micro World - The Nether", along with a Zombie pigman.
Iron golems and vindicators named Johnny do not fight ghasts unless they are close enough, even in this case, it's rare.
When killed with its own fireball, the ghast turns orange rather than red. This is because the ghast is set on fire.‌[Bedrock Edition only]
Splash potions affect ghasts only when hitting them on their lower half.
Despite not having visible feet, ghasts are still capable of making footstep sounds.[13]
Ghasts are the only non-undead mob that withers are not hostile toward.
If a player hits a fireball using an item with the Looting enchantment, any mob killed by that fireball has its drops affected by the enchantment as though the mob was killed by directly using the item.
A chest is short enough that a boat falls onto it rather than crashes into it.
Sand, red sand, concrete powder, gravel, anvils and dragon eggs drop as items when they fall onto a boat that is in water.
Boats travel at fast speeds when on ice, packed ice, and frosted ice. They travel even faster on blue ice.
The crafting recipes for boats are the only recipes that can be unlocked in the recipe book without having any items.
If the player is standing on a floating boat and the boat is moved, the player's hunger bar decreases.
Chests render as a full block when in the inventory, but not when placed.‌[Bedrock Edition only][2]
Aside from air, bedrock, and obsidian,‌[upcoming: JE 1.16] chests are the only block in Minecraft that can generate in the Overworld, the Nether, and the End.
Adult piglins cannot ride on other entities; if summoned as a passenger they immediately dismount.‌[Java Edition only]
Baby piglins never grow up.[3]
Piglins can put on any type of head / skull that are on the ground and in the case of pumpkins only the carved one.
Red parrots are based on real-life Scarlet macaw, "with a little Minecraft twist.".[9] Similarly, blue parrots are based on hyacinth macaws, cyan parrots are based on blue-and-yellow macaws, green parrots are based on chestnut-fronted macaw, great green macaw, red-shouldered macaw or white-eyed parakeet and gray parrots are based on cockatiels.
Warnings against feeding chocolate or avocados to parrots are referenced in two different splash texts.
The Minecraft team uses various party parrot emojis when communicating with each other.[10]
When moved by a piston, an observer sends a 2-game tick (1 redstone tick) pulse after being moved, which makes it useful for slime block flying machines.
The current Observer texture was created because Jeb kept confusing the front with the back. He said it was inspired by the "rejected texture" created by Tommaso Checchi.[16][17]
Many items crafted using planks or sticks have textures that most resemble oak planks, regardless of the species used to craft them. On the other hand, item frames and fletching tables resemble birch planks, cartography tables resemble dark oak planks, barrels resemble spruce planks, while smithing tables resemble crimson planks.
Crimson Planks and Warped Planks do not naturally generate, and are only available if crafted by a player.
If alerted to a player's presence, a skeleton can fire arrows backward, occasionally hitting themselves.
Skeletons cannot see the player through glass, fences, or other transparent blocks.
If a skeleton kills a creeper, the creeper drops a music disc.
Skeletons and their variants do not know how to use a crossbow, despite the same using method as a bow.
The artificial intelligence of skeletons in Bedrock Edition is a mix of skeleton AI from Java Edition between versions 1.5 and 1.8.9 and the skeletons in Update Aquatic. They shoot faster when they are on land and the target underwater, causing knockback enough to make combat hard. Additionally, they do not strafe left to right, and they shoot more rapidly at closer targets. Skeletons also use ranged attacks on land and switch to melee attacks when sinking underwater.
Skeletons and endermen are the only mobs that can spawn in both the Overworld and the Nether. Additionally Zombies may also rarely spawn if an attacked Zombie Pigman spawns in reinforcements.
Striders are the only passive mob that spawns exclusively in the Nether.
In the way a bear's offspring are called cubs & a dog's offspring are called pups, a llama's offspring are called cria.
Llama still float when riding while on water deeper than 2 blocks.
The player can still see a llama's carpet decoration when it is under the effect of Invisibility.
When breeding two trading llamas, the cria wears a baby-sized, trader-style carpet.‌[Java Edition only]
The achievement title refers to the 1980 comedy movie "Caddyshack", where Bill Murray tells a story of how he once caddied for the Dalai Lama. In return, on his deathbed he expects to receive total consciousness, thus uttering the famous line "So I got that going for me".
In Java Edition, llamas are the only mob that can directly inflict damage to players in Peaceful difficulty.[3]
Some carpets on llamas back represent certain mobs: creeper or enderman. A llama wearing a gray carpet has a mask, similar to that of a superhero.
The thinner sides of the Nether portal block are transparent.
The hay bale was first discovered in a test screenshot located in the files of the game, Nuke the Dinosaurs, one of the games in the Mojam 2 bundle.[8]
It takes 10 minutes and 40 seconds to smelt a stack of 64 items in a single furnace, although this time can be reduced by splitting the load between multiple furnaces or by smelting the items in a blast furnace or smoker.
Burning logs or wood with planks to make charcoal is over 4 times (×4.57) more efficient than using the log or wood itself as fuel. It is just over 11⁄4 times more efficient than using planks.
The most efficient fuel to make charcoal is charcoal itself.
Turning coal into blocks of coal is slightly more efficient (×1.11) than using the coal itself as fuel. For 9 coal, you get 80 smelts instead of the usual 72.
If the player wants to use wooden tools as fuel, the most efficient way is to use it until its durability reaches 1, then use it as a fuel afterwards.
Melting down used iron – or golden – tools and armor for nuggets and crafting the same tool out of them afterwards is a more efficient strategy in the case of shovels, swords and hoes (the latter two just barely). Otherwise, the player can get far more durability for their iron by combining the items in the crafting grid or a grindstone.
"Smelting" is a pretty broad term in the context of Minecraft while in the real world, smelting has a more precise definition.[2]
If the player sprints across a carpet, the particle effects are those of the blocks that are directly below it.
Carpets do not prevent the formation of ice.
Carpets can safely be placed on top of farmland, although it does not protect the farmland from jumping entities.
1.13.1 has five snapshots, from 18w30a to 18w33a, making it have the second most snapshots among all minor updates, behind 1.7.4, which had 8.
The iron golem's holding out flowers to villagers is a reference to the ancient robots in Hayao Miyazaki's animated film Laputa: Castle in the Sky.[3] When villager children notice the poppy in its hand, they slowly approach, and take the flower eventually. Iron golems do not actually pick up poppies; they spawn them in their hands.
Tamed wolves continue to attack iron golems even after the iron golems have turned passive toward the player (which will also cause them to fight back as well).
If a player throws an ender pearl at an iron golem that has spawned in a village, it becomes hostile.
Even if it has a poppy in its hands, the iron golem can still hit a hostile mob.
If an iron golem is in a boat, no other entities except for a player can ride as a passenger or control the boat.
According to the illustrations in Mobestiary, the iron golem may, in fact, be a machine, following its original inspiration.
If you look closely, you can see that it is wearing a hood, the same that is unused on old villagers, witches, and illagers. However, it is part of it’s head texture, rather than an overlay.[needs testing]
Water bottles can be filled up from waterlogged blocks, even if water is not accessible from the targeted area; a bug which Mojang decided not to fix.[2]
To create the in-game sounds for pandas, Mojang's lead sound designer, Samuel Åberg, went to Guangzhou, China, to record real-life pandas.[2] This was also done with dolphins.
The brown panda, known as the Qinling panda, is actually a subspecies of the giant panda.
The lazy panda is the slowest land mob in the game (not counting status effects such as Slowness).
The rarest mob in Bedrock Edition is a baby husk with equipment and armor riding a brown panda, which has a 2.88×10−13 percent (one in 3.472 trillion) chance of spawning.
Any two adult animals of the same species can breed with each other, even if one animal is the parent of the other.
Baby squid and baby dolphins exist in Bedrock Edition, even though they cannot be bred by the player.
Before Java Edition 1.13, in the language files, axes were referred to as Hatchets.[2]
Spawners containing zombies have a small chance to spawn riding chickens.
Spawners containing zombies or skeletons have a chance for the mob spinning inside to have armor.
Spawners containing spiders have a small chance to spawn a spider jockey.
Spawners containing Pillagers have a small chance for the mob spinning inside to be a Raid captain.
Spawners in mushroom fields, mushroom field shore or the Void biome can function normally, despite those biomes having no hostile mobs spawn naturally.
Although in Bedrock Edition a spawner emits light level 3, the only effect on gameplay is to make an inactive spawner slightly more visible in a very dark area because mob spawning and crop growth effects are always the same for light levels 0-3.
Spawners are the only block that can be legitimately obtained as an item, but not obtainable from either Creative mode or pick block.‌[Java Edition only]
Droppers can throw items or push them into adjacent containers.
Hoppers can push items into adjacent containers.
Ice and packed ice have reduced friction to the item entity movement.
Slime blocks can impart velocity to item entities when pushed by a piston.
Water can push item entities.
Quasi-connectivity Applies to Dispensers.
The reason the default world border is at X/Z ±29,999,984 is due to the fact that Dinnerbone put it 1 chunk (16 blocks) short of the edge to prevent falling through the world.[2]
Rain and snow still falls above the clouds. Notch's explanation is that the gray above the clouds during a storm is another layer of clouds and the origin of the rain.[10]
Rain and snow are both considered the same weather effect by the game. This explains why there is no /weather snow command.
Rain and snow actually fall one block into the void (Layer -1). This can be seen in Creative Mode by floating in the Void. Note that no particles are emitted from the rain, due to the absence of a block below it.
Lightning does not have an image file associated with it. Thus, it is coded directly into the game engine, allowing for dynamic, realistic lightning.
Cocoa pods have a different hitbox for each size, however the top is always 0.25 blocks below the top of the wood it is on.
If a cocoa pod grows while the player is standing next to it, the player is forced into the appropriate form of suffocation prevention depending on available space.
The pixels on top of the fully grown pod are 8/7 the size of those on the side.
Tilling a dirt block, which has a dirt block on top of it, changes it to farmland even though it cannot be used. If a hoe is used on a block horizontally adjacent to such a block, the first block reverts to dirt and the selected block is not tilled.
When a hoe breaks, it does not display the tool breaking animation like on other tools, since tilling is not predicted client-side.
Hoes made from stronger crafting materials than wood (stone, iron, gold, diamond, and netherite) offer no benefit, only different durabilities (and slightly-faster attack speeds). [until JE 1.16]
The maximum health the player can achieve using Health Boost and Absorption is 2068♥ × 1034.
A player who gets max health using the method above, and then adds Regeneration with the level of 255 while healing to 1034 hearts, sees the view jolt, even in Creative mode[verify], as if taking damage. This also happens when the effect ends.
If the player has at least Resistance 5, then they are practically invincible (apart from the /kill command and the void), although the void cannot kill a player with Regeneration 7 or higher (modulo 32).
The Wither effect is the only negative effect that can negatively affect both living and undead mobs.
The Jump Boost status effect does not make slimes, magma cubes or guardians jump higher ‌[Java Edition only]
Speed allows slimes to jump farther. Extreme higher levels of speed can make slimes bounce out of view with just one jump, depends on the render distance.
The Levitation status effect normally raises the player into the air, unless the player is in water.
When having multiple status effects, the status effects' timer's is reduced by 1 second each simultaneously, regardless of when the player takes another potion. This is because they use the same "seconds counter" that "ticks" every 20 game ticks to save memory. For example, if the player drinks one potion and another different potion that doesn't reset the timer 5.5 (or any non-integer amounts) seconds later, both status effects' timers subtract 1 second from both of them simultaneously.
The player can walk/run while having the Levitation effect, especially on level 254.
Although the Wither effect is given to the player by being hit by wither skeletons or the wither, the icon shows a normal skeleton head instead of a wither skeleton head.
Using /effect <player> minecraft:levitation <time in seconds> 255 makes the player fly in Survival and not jump, when the effect is over in Survival when in midair, hitting the ground causes the player to shoot into the air, resulting in a likely death.
When a creeper has a status effect and explodes, it leaves a lingering potion cloud of the effect(s) that it had before it died.‌[Java Edition only]
The Conduit Power status icon reuses the old heart of the sea texture.
Popular on-line Minecraft streamer "CaptainSparklez" voiced two of the commercials advertising LEGO Minecraft.[11]
The Killer Bunny is a reference to the Killer Rabbit of Caerbannog from the British comedy film Monty Python and the Holy Grail, which it was formerly named.
The Killer Bunny was suggested by Twitter user @88bully.[5]
Rabbits do not jump on slime blocks.
Minecraft's "Meet the Evoker" shows an evoker with a hat, which is the similar model of the illusioner's.[1] This hat model is also seen in the witch, nitwit, librarian, priest and vindicator's texture file but unused.
The sheep color conversion spell is a reference to priests in a video game named "Age of Empires", where they can turn enemy units into friendly units after making a "wololo" sound.
Grass cannot be directly set on fire from lightning. However, fire from nearby blocks can spread to it. Oddly enough, the top of grass can be lit but it does not burn this way. When any kind of grass is set on fire, the fire seems to hover just over the grass, as if it were a full block.
Even though ferns do not produce seeds in real life, as they emit spores instead, they can drop seeds if broken.
Grass is slightly offset from the block it is sitting on (as seen in the second screenshot). This causes fields of grass to appear more contiguous. This can sometimes cause grass to clip horizontally or vertically through block corners.[5]
Grass can appear in caves on dirt near lava, and rarely, within a few blocks of bedrock. They can also occasionally generate on blocks other than grass, such as sand on beaches or in village buildings.
Using bone meal on grass in a spawn-protected area on a server still produces grass and flowers.
Placing any block on grass overwrites the grass, and the grass does not drop seeds.
The sounds endermen make are actually people saying "Hi" and "What's Up", but backward and distorted.
Notch claimed in public that the enderman is a "subtle reference to "the Slenderman", a similar-looking monster with a similar name. Given the later development of the End, it is possible he already had the name in mind, and did not choose it because of the Reddit thread in which their name was revealed.[18] In the Halloween texture pack for Legacy Console Edition, the enderman is re-skinned to look like Slenderman.
The collective noun for a group of endermen is "a haunting of endermen", as stated by Dinnerbone.[19] Additionally, in the third episode of Minecraft: Story Mode, The Last Place You Look, a player is given the option to correct the grammar of other characters by specifying that the collective noun for a group of endermen is "a haunting of endermen."
Switching to spectator mode and taking an enderman's point of view adds a shader that inverts colors, suggesting that they see the End as an island of blue cobblestone (because end stone is a yellowish version of cobblestone with inverted colors) in a white sky, with white pillars, white endermen with green eyes and a white ender dragon, also with green eyes. They also see cobblestone as end stone.
The texture for an enderman's eyes is located in a different texture file than the body, allowing their eyes to glow. Because the two textures do not line up perfectly, forcing an enderman to look straight up causes its eyes to turn blank white.
The enderman teleportation sound also plays when a player teleports using an ender pearl‌[Bedrock Edition only] or chorus fruit.‌[Java Edition only]
Endermen are the only mobs who naturally spawn in all three dimensions.
The texture of the beacon is 16×16 but renders only the 10×10 area in the center.
It is possible to see the beacon beam on the bottom of an activated beacon. This was initially reported as a bug, but the resolution was "won't fix", despite a fix being provided.[2]
When destroyed by an explosion, a beacon always drops as an item.
There are 16,777,216 (2563) different beam colors, needing at most 6 layers of glass.
Renaming a mob "Dinnerbone" or "Grumm" using a spawn egg or name tag causes it to flip upside down.
Renaming a sheep "jeb_" makes its wool change color with a smooth transition between colors. Note that the sheep named "jeb_" will only drop the wool which it was colored initially (e.g., when a pink sheep named "jeb_" is sheared when its color has changed to blue, it will still drop pink wool).
Renaming a vindicator "Johnny" makes it attack all nearby mobs, except other illagers.
Renaming a rabbit "Toast" gives the rabbit a new texture, as an Easter egg to xyzen420's girlfriend's missing rabbit.[3]
Spiders, cave spiders, silverfish and illusioners are some of the few mobs that can see players behind walls.
Cats and villagers can see players with the invisibility effect.
There are many blocks in the game that do not take up a full block, and mobs will actually see many of these as full blocks.
With some blocks, mobs will mistake them for air, such as carpets, snow, and string.
Drowned are not considered as aquatic mobs, instead, they are considered as 'undead'. So, they are not affected by impaling enchantment.‌[Java Edition only]
A drowned chicken jockey floats to the surface because the chicken it is riding floats, causing the drowned riding it to burn in sunlight during the day, resulting in a chicken in the middle of the ocean or river where the drowned jockey spawned in.‌[Java Edition only]
In Bedrock Edition, drowned have a 3D outer layer. This causes their heads and arms to look larger than in Java Edition.
Like spiders and endermen, drowned have eyes that appear to emit a light blue glow, although they do not produce light.
When putting armor on a drowned using a dispenser, the helmet won't appear but still protects from sunlight.‌[Bedrock Edition only]
Brewing continues as long as at least one of the three bottom spaces is filled, and additional bottles of water or potions can be added. However, if the ingredient is removed, or the bottom three slots are emptied at any time during the process, the process stops and nothing is brewed.
The three potions do not necessarily have to be the same.
Upgrading the effect of a potion that has no time parameter (e.g. Instant Health) with glowstone dust has no downsides.
Upgrading the time of a potion that has no level II effect (e.g. Fire Resistance) with redstone has no downsides.
Although Jeb said that in Beta 1.9 Prerelease 3 there would be 161 possible different potion combinations with 2,653 in the future, in the actual third pre-release only 22 different potions could be made without the use of external programs. Of those, 19 potions had one of 8 different effects.
Undead mobs take damage from potions of Healing, gain health from potions of Harming, and are unaffected by potions of Poison and Regeneration.
By modifying the item NBT using an editor or commands, it is possible to get a potion that cannot be upgraded into a splash potion.
The potion of Weakness is the only potion with an effect that can be brewed without needing to have a nether wart.
Brewing recipes are one of the few types of crafting that cannot be included in data packs.
In real life, hyphae are branching filaments that collectively make real-life mycelium.[1]
A sign placed within a ring of four cacti breaks only certain cacti, depending on the direction.[3]
In Minecraft China, when a disallowed word or phrase is written on a sign, the sign will only display "xxx".
In real life, coral are colonies of sessile (immobile) animals.
Before September 2018, 1.5 was the only release version which was not immediately available to play from the launcher.
Occasionally, leaves grow through other blocks, acting as though they are still connected to the tree. They may also completely replace blocks they try to grow into.
Leaves do not prevent chests from being opened.
Some trees seem to occasionally drop apples or saplings without being destroyed due to creation of leaf blocks not supported by logs.
The frost texture in Bedrock Edition is not an instant transition. Instead, the leaves slowly shift from their original color to the frosty one.
Leaves disappear when pushed by pistons.
Leaves Z-fight with blocks such as carpet that are placed on top; a bug that Mojang decided not to fix.[2]‌[Bedrock Edition only]
A block can be picked up 1/2 second after being mined. An item dropped using Q requires 2 seconds before it can be picked up again.
MC-4, the oldest standing bug in the Minecraft bug tracker, involves item entity positioning being incorrectly handled.
Nether stars cannot be blown up. This is to account for explosions that occur during fights with withers, which drop them.
Netherite related items cannot be burned when thrown in lava, and they can also float to the surface. ‌[upcoming: JE 1.16 & BE 1.16.0]
When walking on a block that has a rail on top, the player hears the sound of the block they are walking on, but if they jump (while still walking), they hear the sound of iron.[2]
Rails are 750 mm (approx. 2-foot 5-inch) narrow gauge (the gauge is the distance between the rails).
Mobs can't walk across rails.
A chest of rails has a total length of 64 × 27 = 1728 meters, which is slightly more than 1 mile (1.074 miles, 0.933 nautical miles).
The falling ability of the anvil is a reference to the common cartoon trope.
If an item is renamed, such as diamonds, it cannot stack with unnamed or differently-named items.
For unenchanted items, "unit repair" can easily cost more material than just crafting a new item or combining damaged items. The exception is armor, where players can use less material at the cost of experience levels.
If placed on top of exploding TNT blocks, the explosion won't affect the surrounding area. This is because the anvil falls into the space the TNT entity is occupying, and since the TNT's explosion power is not high enough to destroy the anvil, no blocks are destroyed.
Although foxes appear to hold items in their mouth, they are technically holding items in their main hand.
Foxes are one of the few mobs that can sleep in Minecraft. The other mobs include cats, villagers, and bats.
Foxes are the only overworld land mob that can jump more than one block high without status effects or player input.
In the real world, some species of fox jump high to catch their prey by surprise, an action reflected in their Minecraft counterpart.
The phenomenon of foxes going to villages is based on stories of foxes raiding farms and towns for food in the real world.
When foxes were being added into Minecraft, a glitch occurred where they looked like boxes.[1]
There is a splash screen "In case it isn't obvious, foxes aren't players" in the game, which was added from description to bug MC-166292.
Trapped chests render as a full block when in the inventory, but not when placed.‌
Originally, shulkers were going to camouflage with a nearby block (shulkers next to purpur would look like purpur, and shulkers next to end stone would look like end stone). However, Jeb decided this was too difficult to code, so instead, shulkers were just purple mobs that would open and shoot.[6]
The word "shulker" is a portmanteau (combination of multiple words) of "shell lurker".[7]
All shulker named 'Dinnerbone' or 'Grumm', the mob flips upside-down, revealing a spiral pattern on the base. This appears to also lift the shulker by the same height as a pressure plate.
Shulkers can attack each other, in which case they shoot fully guided bullets at each other, but are unaffected by levitation when hit. The normal teleportation habits apply during shulker vs. shulker battles.
By using commands, they can be made to be part of a team to attack other teams and can be used as defense mobs. In that case, it doesn't attack its teammates but targets most hostile mobs without provocation.
Walking toward a shulker at the same level as the player's head pushes the player down to the one-block crawling position if there is space beneath.
If given the invisibility effect, only the shulker's shell becomes invisible. This is different to most other mobs such as armored mobs and saddled pigs, where the living part of the mob turns invisible with the outer areas remaining visible.
In the game's texture files, the shulker bullet is named "spark.png".
If a creeper has been hit by a shulker bullet and has the Levitation effect, it leaves a lingering levitation cloud where it explodes.
A real-life hopper is a large, pyramidal shaped container used in industrial processes to hold particulate matter that has been collected from expelled air.
A Hopper can transfer 9000 items/hour or 150 items/minute. If a hopper needs to pull an item from another container, this speed is cut in half.
Crossbows enchanted with Quick Charge VI and above get stuck on the first frame on the recharging animation because the resulting charge time is negative, and the game never reaches the time markers that tell it to advance the animation or the reloading procedure itself. It is technically possible to charge such crossbows, but this would require overflowing the value that determines how long the crossbow has been charged. This takes such an amount of time that this is practically impossible: for example, charging a crossbow with Quick Charge VI would take 69.4 years to complete.
Due to being able to be put away and still be loaded, a player could have 9 crossbows in the hotbar, allowing for the rapid unloading of arrows. With average damage, this does 90 total damage with normal arrows, which is enough to kill a player in Protection IV diamond armor with Resistance II (38.1 damage total, taking armor toughness into account), the highest effect obtainable in survival without using a Potion of the Turtle Master.
In terms of ammunition, power, and single targets, bows are more effective with the Infinity and Power enchantments, while crossbows are good at crowd-controlling with Multishot/Piercing enchantments.
Skeletons and their variants do not know how to use a crossbow, despite the same using method as a bow.
Loading a crossbow with fireworks and then firing it at an enderman or wither with its Wither Armor active can damage it. This is because of the fact that fireworks deal explosion damage and not projectile damage. This is the only method of damaging an enderman or wither with its Wither Armor at a long-range.
The Piercing enchantment can be useful to save arrows because they can still be picked up after they hit a wall.
Shooting a charged crossbow does not delay any of the player's current action like sprinting, swimming, etc.
Although Piercing allows arrows to bypass shields, they can't get through the Wither Armor.
The Advancement "Ol' Betsy" is most likely a reference to the character Trigger from the 1973 Disney animated film Robin Hood, who has a crossbow he calls Ol' Betsy.
The crossbow's first-person loading animation in Bedrock is different from Java.
In Bedrock Edition, if a player enters a 2-block-high area of water and swims into a 1-block gap then leaves the water, the player does not suffocate but still continues to swim on land, which is similar to suffocation prevention in Java Edition.[3]
If a tamed wolf is named with a name tag, its name is shown in the chat when killed.
Wolves can teleport into transparent blocks.
If the player attacks a wolf and then give the aggressive wolf food that it can eat (like rotten flesh), hearts appear as animals do when entering breeding mode, however, the wolf does not breed and continues attacking the player.
In singleplayer, if the player punches a wild wolf and leaves its field of vision, it stares at the player and does not move at all. Going back into its range causes it to continue pursuing the player.
An aggressive wolf can path-find like most mobs, but may sometimes try to jump across a 1–2 block gap to get to a player. A wolf cannot scale a two-block gap, so it falls, but may still manage to damage the player.
If the player kills their own tamed wolves, their wolves still drop experience.
Untamed wolves use their hostile appearance when they are attacking sheep, skeletons, foxes or rabbits. They change back once the targeted mob dies or gets out of their range.
Attacking a wild wolf on peaceful does not damage the player, but the wolf assumes the hostile appearance and tries to push the player, similar to a tiny slime.
A wild baby wolf's head grows significantly when attacked.
If the player attacks a wolf, but then moves a large distance away (e.g. 70 blocks), the wolf still appears hostile, but exhibits neutral behavior.‌[Java Edition only]
Wolves that are tamed by the same player can accidentally attack each other while attacking another mob, leading to a fight.
Wolves chase bats despite being unable to reach them.[11]
A mysterious Red Wolf can be spawned using the command "/summon wolf ~ ~ ~ minecraft:tame_on" in Bedrock Edition. It cannot be tamed nor fed.
In Bedrock Edition, the data values for wool and their respective dyes are the inverse of each other. This is also true for stained glass, terracotta, shulker boxes, beds, banners, concrete powder, and concrete.
White wool can be mixed with bone meal when crafting, but it is a waste of bone meal.[verify]
When "Cave 14" is viewed in a spectrogram, it appears to show the face of a creeper.
Cave ambience is the only ambience that shows in subtitles.
Cave ambience still shows up in the subtitles even when turned off.
If the player leaves a village during a raid, obtains another level of Bad Omen, and returns to the village, then the effect is nullified and has no effect on the progressing raid.
The horn sound that blares at the start of each wave is created by a corkscrew didgeridoo.[2]
The plains and forest biomes also generates in patches within normal deep ocean biomes, similar to how 'Hills' biomes generate within their respective base biomes.
Although normal Deep ocean biomes can generate standalone, normal deep ocean biomes also generates in patches within normal ocean biomes, similar to how 'Hills' biomes generate within their respective base biomes.
Regular mineshafts may still generate deep underground in Badlands biomes, and can even intersect the unique Badlands mineshafts, should they generate close enough to one.
Eroded badlands continue to generate terrain in the "Nothingness" part of the Far Lands. Other badlands biome are an ocean down to bedrock layer, like most biomes.
If a player throws a Loyalty-enchanted trident and the player's inventory subsequently fills, the trident hovers around or through the player's skin until an inventory slot opens, which it fills immediately. Multiple tridents can be 'queued' to re-enter the player's inventory in this manner.
In Java Edition in Creative mode, sword enchantments can be applied to tridents. This includes Sharpness, Smite, Bane of Arthropods, Fire Aspect, and Looting. Sharpness, Smite, and Bane of Arthropods increases their damage against their specific mobs, as well.[more information needed]
In Bedrock Edition, a piston moving a block with a trident thrown onto it moves the trident as well, damaging any mobs in the trident's path. This is considered player damage.[4] It would allow for AFK experience farms, although the trident(s) fall off after a few minutes due to MCPE-54852.
Thrown tridents pass through nether portal blocks without being transported to the Nether or the Overworld.
Tridents have the same attack damage as a Netherite Sword.
There are a possible fourteen trillion (14,062,500,000,000) real chunks that can be generated. There are 7.46×10244,700 possible chunks, excluding entities.
If a player stands in a chunk that has not generated yet, the world immediately becomes invisible until they are in a valid chunk. This does not happen if the Y coordinates are beyond the chunk boundaries.
In Bedrock Edition, if one of the sixteen 16×16×16 sections of a chunk doesn't have any blocks in it, placing a block there shows the same animation as a chunk loading. This bug makes the block that the player placed to turn to the same color of the sky in the direction the player is facing for about 1 second and starts fading away into the normal block texture. If the time is sunrise or sunset and the player places a block there, it actually changes colors constantly for 1 second if the player keeps bobbing their head up and down. The block also makes blocks behind it appear invisible.
The tops of doors do not rotate in an expected way when opened and closed.[7]
The end gateway is the only 'portal' block that is a full cube.
The End Gateway starfield pattern is different from the End Portal Block, which does not add extra blue streak flying horizontally on the screen.
In Bedrock Edition if one manages to place an end gateway at the center of the obsidian platform, it teleports the player before the platform regenerates. As a result, the platform appears in a different location than it should, like below the main island.
In Bedrock Edition end gateways have no name. It shows "tile.end_gateway.name" because of a missing translation string.
